=== FULL MATCHED GUIDELINES ===
Patient ID: 8
Timestamp: 2025-12-12T15:39:27.463122

===== GUIDELINE 1: Management of well-differentiated small intestine neuroendocrine tumours =====
Relevance: The patient has a well-differentiated Ileal NET (Si-NET), G2, with liver and peritoneal metastases. This aligns perfectly with the guideline's scope for well-differentiated small intestine neuroendocrine tumours. The guideline addresses the tumor board's question regarding the sequencing of PRRT versus upfront surgery in Stage IV disease. Specifically, Section 7 discusses the controversial role of prophylactic primary tumor resection in asymptomatic stage IV patients and the role of cytoreductive surgery for peritoneal carcinomatosis. Section 6 outlines the use of PRRT as a standard second-line treatment after SSA progression. These sections provide the evidence base needed to evaluate the decision between initiating PRRT or performing surgery.
--- BEGIN FULL CONTENT ---
## CLI N I C A L GUIDELINE

## European Neuroendocrine Tumor Society (ENETS) 2024 guidance paper for the management of well-differentiated small intestine neuroendocrine tumours

1 Department of Oncology -Onco Health Institute, Fundación Jiménez Díaz University Hospital, Madrid, Spain

2 Department of Medical Oncology, The Christie NHS Foundation, Manchester, Division of Cancer Sciences, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK

3 Department of Visceral-, Thoracic- and Vascular Surgery, Philipps University Marburg, Marburg, Germany

4 Neuroendocrine Tumour Unit, Royal Free Hospital, London, UK

5 Department of Endocrinology and Neuroendocrine Tumors, ENETS Center of Excellence, Department of Pathophysiology and Endocrinology, Medical University of Silesia, Katowice, Poland

6 Department of Clinical Physiology and Nuclear Medicine and Cluster for Molecular Imaging, Copenhagen University of Copenhagen -Rigshospitalet, Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark

7 Pancreas Translational and Clinical Research Centre, Pancreatic and Transplant Surgery Unit, Vita-Salute San Raffaele University, Milan, Italy

8 Department of Gastroenterology, University Hospital Marburg and Philipps University Marburg, Marburg, Germany

9 Department of Medical Sciences, Endocrine Oncology Unit, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden

10 Department of Medical Oncology, University of Exeter Medical School, Exeter, UK

11 Department of Pathology, Erasmus MC University Medical Center, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The Netherlands

12 Department of Radiology, Paul Brousse University Hospital, AP-HP-University Paris Saclay, Villejuif, France

13 Department of Medicine 1, Friedrich-Alexander University Erlangen-Nürnberg, ENETS Center of Excellence Erlangen, CCC Erlangen- EMN, and Deutsches Zentrum Immuntherapie (DZI), University Hospital Erlangen, Erlangen, Germany

## Correspondence

Angela Lamarca, Department of Oncology, OncoHealth Institute, Fundación Jiménez Díaz University Hospital, Avda Reyes Catolicos 2, Madrid 28040, Spain.

Email: angela.lamarca@quironsalud.es

## Abstract

Both the incidence and prevalence of well-differentiated neuroendocrine tumours from the small intestine (Si-NET) are gradually increasing. Most patients have nonfunctioning tumours with subtle GI symptoms and tumours are often discovered incidentally by endoscopy or at advanced disease stages by imaging depicting mesenteric lymph node and /or liver metastases while around 30% of the patients present with symptoms of the carcinoid syndrome. Adequate biochemical assessment and staging including functional imaging is crucial for treatment-related decisionmaking that should take place in an expert multidisciplinary team setting. Preferably, patients should be referred to specialised ENETS Centres of Excellence or centres of high expertise in the field. This guidance paper provides the current evidence and best knowledge for the management of Si-NET grade (G) 1 -3 following 10 key questions of practical relevance for the diagnostic and therapeutic decision making.

|

## KEYWORDS

guidance, neuroendocrine, small intestine, treatment

## I NTRODUCTION

Neuroendocrine neoplasms (NENs) arising from the small intestine (Si-NEN) are considered rare malignancies. Despite this, both the incidence and prevalence are gradually increasing. 1 NENs are divided into well-differentiated neuroendocrine tumours (NET) and poorly differentiated neuroendocrine carcinomas (NEC) according to the most recent World Health Organization (WHO) 2022 classification. NEC are very rare among Si-NEN and covered in a separate ENETS Guidance paper 2 Grading is an essential component of the WHO classification. Si-NETs are graded as follows: NET G1 (Ki67 &lt;3%; &lt;2 mitotic count in 2 mm 2 ), NET G2 (Ki-67 3% -20%; mitotic count 2 -20 in 2 mm 2 ), NET G3 (Ki-67 &gt;20%; mitotic count &gt;20 in 2 mm 2 ). 3,4

According to the most updated data from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) programme that analysed 64,971 cases of NEN, there was an age-adjusted annual incidence rate increase by 6.4-fold from 1973 (1.09 per 100,000) to 2012 (6.98 per 100,000). 1 This increase occurred across all NEN, for all sites, stages and grades. The commonest individual organ with the highest incidence is the lung (1.49 per 100,000 persons). Gastroentero-pancreatic (GEP) NEN amount to 3.56 per 100,000 population and include a variety of primary tumours, the most common being Si-NEN (1.05 per 100,000 persons). Available data on incidences from national and regional cancer registries in North America, Western Europe and Japan, identified slight variations across countries with a trend toward slightly higher incidence rate for United States, Norway and Sweden compared to United Kingdom, Italy, Austria and France. 5 However, these variations may derive from heterogeneity of data sources and means of registration rather than a true variation. 5 In a more recent retrospective patient based study from the United Kingdom the incidence of SI NET was 1.46 per 100,000 in 2018 and equalled the incidence of lung NET. 6 Si-NET is also one of the sites with most pronounced increase of prevalence. This is most likely due to the indolent disease course of Si-NET with long overall survival (OS) reported in the SEER database (median OS of 14 years for Si-NET diagnosed at localised stages and median OS of 8.6 years for Si-NET with distant metastatic disease).

Most patients have non-functioning tumours with subtle or no symptoms while around 30% of the patients may present with symptoms of the carcinoid syndrome (CS), that may lead to specific symptoms including diarrhoea, flushing, and more rarely bronchial obstruction induced by hypersecretion of serotonin and other bioactive substances from the tumour. Some patients may develop carcinoid heart disease (CHD) as a long-term sequela of CS. Comprehensive information on diagnosis and treatment of CS and CHD are provided in a separate guidance paper. 7

This guidance paper provides the current evidence and best knowledge for the management of Si-NET (predominantly jejunal and ileal primaries) G1-3 following 10 key questions (Table 1) of practical relevance for the diagnostic and therapeutic decision making. Grades of recommendations are provided based on criteria available in Appendix Figure A1.

## 1 | WHICH FEATURES NEED TO BE TAKEN I NTO CONSIDERATION FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF SI-NET?

Overall, diagnosis and management of Si-NETs requires a specialised multidisciplinary team (MDT) approach (Figures 1 and 2). Si-NET are often diagnosed at an advanced stage of the disease either incidentally following abdominal imaging for another reason or due to unspecific symptoms associated with metastases, mesenteric fibrosis, or bowel complaints due to intestinal obstruction. Some patients present with specific symptoms of the carcinoid syndrome (CS) due to secretion of biologically active compounds such as serotonin and tachykinins or are discovered during surgery for intestinal obstruction or bleeding. Most Si-NET are indolent slow-growing, well -differentiated NET G1 or G2 and only rarely NET G3. Patients have an excellent 5and 10-year survival, even in the metastasised setting. 8,9

TABLE 1 Ten major questions on diagnostic and therapeutic management of NET.

| Q. No.   | Questions on diagnostic and therapeutic management of NET                                             |
|----------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Q1       | Which features need to be taken into consideration for the management of Si-NET?                      |
| Q2       | Is there any role of circulating biomarker measurement in Si- NET?                                    |
| Q3       | Which is the most suitable diagnostic and staging work-up for patients with small intestinal NET?     |
| Q4       | What is the role of surgery in localised SI-NET?                                                      |
| Q5       | What is the recommended first-line systemic treatment for advanced disease?                           |
| Q6       | What is the recommended treatment beyond first- line SSA therapy?                                     |
| Q7       | What is the role of locoregional and ablative therapies in advanced Si-NET?                           |
| Q8       | Which is the best therapeutic strategy in patients with Carcinoid Syndrome and tumour growth control? |
| Q9       | What are the most recent developments for Si-NET?                                                     |
| Q10      | What is the recommended follow-up for Si-NET?                                                         |

FIGURE 1 Diagnosis of Si-NET.

FIGURE 2 Staging and workup of Si-NET.

Risk factors for developing Si-NET remain poorly understood. The relationship of their development with smoking and gallbladder diseases has been described. 10 There is emerging evidence of the presence of inherited variants of Si-NET, but the genetic background of this familial subgroup is still not identified. 11 It should also be noted that Si-NET may coexist with other neoplasms, such as gastrointestinal adenocarcinoma or breast cancer. 8,9

about 10% of cases have mutations of the CDKN1B gene, however without any hotspot mutations in this gene. 12,13 Further research is needed to clarify whether genetic changes might give clues to new prognostic or predictive factors.

From a molecular point of view, relatively few genetic alterations are found in Si-NET and the landscape is very different from that seen in Pan-NET. 10 50% -78% of Si-NET show loss of chromosome 18, and

Assessment of symptoms with special focus on CS is crucial. CS can be the clinical sign leading to the diagnosis of Si-NET. Symptoms of CS occur when serotonin and other substances (tachykinins, prostaglandin and histamine) are secreted directly into the systemic circulation, therefore symptoms of the CS occur in general when NET are metastasised to the liver. CS not only significantly worsens the quality

of life of Si-NET patients, but it is also associated with CHD in up to 30% of the patients and adversely affects overall survival. 14,15

It is important to note that patients suffering from CS are treated differently from patients with non-functioning Si-NET. Control of the CS has a priority before any other procedure to avoid carcinoid crisis 7 ; the mainstay of treatment of CS is somatostatin analogues (SSA). The majority of patients however, have non-functioning NET although a transition into a functioning tumour in the course of the disease or with increasing tumour burden may occur. If the disease is not resectable, first-line treatment for most Si-NET patients is SSA. However, some patients with NET G1 and limited tumour burden may be appropriate for active surveillance. 7,16,17

There are variable recommendations regarding the preparation of Si-NET patients for various medical procedures, including surgery, peptide receptor radionuclide therapy (PRRT) or locoregional therapies. It is recommended that in patients with CS, perioperative and periprocedural use of intravenous SSA is offered to patients regardless of the therapy with long-acting SSA. 7,16,18,19

A pathognomonic feature on conventional imaging is the typical mesenteric metastasis, reported in a large series of Si-NET patients in 64% of cases 20 where radiating strands of soft tissue can be seen on CT-scan. 21 At pathology, a sclerosing fibrosis around the tumour mass is often found encompassing vessels and nerves leading to multiple clinical problems including small intestinal ischaemia, venous congestion, ascites and bowel obstruction.

## Recommendations :

Management of Si-NET requires a specialised multidisciplinary team (MDT) for the complexity of the disease for appropriate diagnostic and treatment decisions. Specialised centres with high level of expertise should treat most of these patients, especially in the advanced setting (RECOMMENDATION A-5). Assessment of symptoms with special focus on CS is crucial (RECOMMENDATION A-2b).

## 2 | I S THERE ANY ROLE OF CIRCULATING BIOMARKER MEASUREMENT IN SI-NET?

Si-NET may produce and secrete polypeptides and amines, which play an important role for clinical symptoms related to the CS. These secretory compounds can also be used to guide diagnosis, follow-up after curative management and to monitor treatment response of Si-NET. Measuring such biomarkers at time of first diagnosis and as a baseline assessment at the time of starting a new treatment is recommended (Figure 2).

Chromogranin A (CgA) is a polypeptide secreted by neuroendocrine cells and not specific for Si-NET. The level of CgA in untreated Si-NET patients can be correlated to tumour burden. Changes during the initial phase of treatment have in some studies been correlated to treatment outcome even though this is less well documented. 22,23 Risk of false positives should always be considered, especially in the absence of visible malignancy on imaging. CgA should not be used for screening of Si-NET, since levels are increased in several nonmalignant diseases such as impaired liver and kidney function, atrophic gastritis and inflammatory bowel disease among others. Another drawback of this biomarker is the existence of different assays with different cut-off levels. It is therefore important to use the same assay over time to be able to compare results.

Serotonin is the main amine produced by Si-NET. Measurement of serotonin in whole blood is not recommended since platelets contain high levels, which influences the results. Instead, the breakdown product 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) is used and should be monitored in Si-NET patients. 24

5-HIAA has traditionally been measured in acidified urine in two 24 h collections (due to large variations between days) and under diet restriction since serotonin-rich food may increase the levels significantly. Recently, testing of plasma and serum 5-HIAA has been assessed and compared to urine 5-HIAA, 7 and has become increasingly used in the clinic. 25 However, impaired kidney function may influence serum 5-HIAA levels and should be taken into consideration when interpreting the results.

Tachykinins are small peptides secreted from Si-NET. Circulating levels correlate to flushing and bronchospasms. However, since only few laboratories can provide the assay, general measurement is not recommended. 26

In patients with CHD, measurement of N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide (NT-ProBNP) is helpful to assess the degree of heart failure and should be monitored regularly. 7,27,28

The NETest ® (Wren Laboratories) is an mRNA-based test that analyses 51 gene transcriptome. It may be used to monitor treatment, but similarly to CgA it is not specific for Si-NET and the usefulness in clinical practice is still under evaluation. 29 This test is currently not widely available and its role in ' real-world ' management as a biomarker remains to be determined.

In the few patients with Si-NET G3 it may be of interest to measure neuron specific enolase (NSE), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and aspartate aminotransferase (AST), since these biomarkers have shown to be of prognostic value in large cohort studies of G3 NEN patients. 30,31 However, there is very little specific data addressing their importance for Si-NET and more data is needed to determine their utility in this patient group.

## Recommendations :

Circulating biomarkers can be used to guide diagnosis, follow-up after curative resection and to monitor treatment response of Si-NET (RECOMMENDATION A-2b).

CgA should not be used for screening of Si-NET

(RECOMMENDATION B-2b), since levels are increased in several non-malignant diseases with significant number of false positive results.

5-HIAA, either measured in blood or 24 h urine, should be monitored in Si-NET patients with suspected CS and to assess treatment response in patients with CS (RECOMMENDATION A-2a).

In patients with CHD, measurement of NT-ProBNP is helpful to assess the degree of heart failure and should be monitored regularly (RECOMMENDATION A-2b).

## 3 | WHICH IS THE MOST SUITABLE DIAGNOSTIC AND STAGING WORK-UP FOR PATIENTS WITH SMALL INTESTINAL NET?

## 3.1 | Morphological imaging

Computed tomography (CT) with contrast enhancement is well established as the basic morphological imaging method for diagnosis and staging of patients with Si-NET and should be acquired as a triple-phase CT scan. 32 As an alternative or in combination with CT, contrast enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) may also be used; for accurate assessment of liver metastases, this is the preferred imaging method. MRI is also preferable in young patients with long-term need of follow-up to reduce irradiation dose. In general, MRI has a better soft-tissue contrast andis superior to CT in detection of liver lesions as well as bone and brain metastases. 32 Importantly, using conventional MRI small liver metastases are still missed, 33 the addition of diffusion-weighted MRI (DWI) raised sensitivity to 80% compared to all imaging. Furthermore, using hepatospecific contrast agent (Gd EOB-DTPA) raised the sensitivity to 100% (compared to other nuclear medicine images with positron emission tomography (PET) such as DOTA-TOC imaging). 34

For detection of peritoneal metastases there is no accepted reference standard. One recent meta-analysis including 24 articles shows that DWI provided the highest sensitivity for the detection of peritoneal metastases of gastrointestinal cancer. 35 The most useful imaging tool to identify peritoneal carcinomatosis in NET is the combination of CT and somatostatin receptor (SST) imaging (SRI). 36 Many of the imaging recommendations rely on availability.

In scenarios where the primary tumour cannot be identified with regular imaging, CT or MRI enterography may be performed for identification of an occult bowel primary. 37 The use of capsule endoscopy is not generally recommended, but may be considered in very selected cases.

## 3.2 | Somatostatin receptor imaging

SST expression, in particular subtype 2, is present in most Si-NET and may be visualised using SRI. SRI is nowadays almost entirely based on positron-emitting radioligands that bind to SST and may be detected by PET. Currently used PET tracers include 68 Ga-DOTATOC, 68 GaDOTATATE and 68 Ga-DOTANOC (here named 68 Ga-SSA-PET) that at large perform similarly. 38 In addition, 64 Cu-DOTATATE has recently been approved and made available in the US and is used on a compassionate use basis in Europe. 64 Cu has a longer physical half-life (12.7 h vs. 1.1 h) and a shorter positron range compared with 68 Ga, making central labelling and distribution of 64 Cu-DOTATATE possible and the shorter position range leads to a better lesion detection rate. 39 68 GaSSA-PET should be performed as PET/CT or PET/MRI with diagnostic quality CT or MRI. The use of 68 Ga-SSA-PET in Si-NET serves a dual purpose. Firstly, as the majority of the tumours express SST, 68 GaSSA-PET is valuable for diagnostic work-up and staging with a high sensitivity and lesion detection rate. 32 Secondly, non-invasive visualisation of SST expression may help determine whether patients are suitable candidates for SSA or SST-targeted PRRT with 177 LuDOTATATE or other SST targeting compounds. Finally, 68 Ga-SSAPET may be used for therapy response monitoring.

## 3.3 | 18 F-Fluorodeoxyglucose ( 18 F-FDG) PET

FDG is a glucose analogue that is widely used in cancer imaging outside NET. It is taken up by the same transporters as glucose but not further metabolised and thus accumulates in cancer cells. For NET it has been shown that more aggressive phenotypes (e.g., higher Ki-67 index) have higher 18 F-FDG uptake and that 18 F-FDG uptake is highly prognostic across all NEN grades. 40 In particular, 18 F-FDG PET is also highly prognostic for G1/G2 NET. A recent prospective study demonstrated that 39% (35 of 90) of Si-NET were 18 F-FDG positive. 40 The same study revealed that across tumour origins, 37% (21 of 57) of G1 NET and 58% (48 of 83) of G2 NET were 18 F-FDG positive. 40 Therefore, in addition to the use in high-grade tumours that are negative on 68 Ga-SSA-PET, there may be added value when using both 18 F-FDG and 68 Ga-SSA-PET more systematically in NET although prospective studies to document the value are warranted. In patients that are planned for PRRT, the additional use of 18 F-FDG PET to identify mismatched lesions, that is, lack of SST on lesions identified on 18 F-FDG PET may be used to identify patients that should be considered for other or additional treatment. Dual 18 F-FDG and SRI could be considered in G3 Si-NET and selected NET G2 patients (i.e., Ki-67 &gt;10%).

## 3.4 | 18 F-DOPA PET -any role in Si-NET?

When comparing 18 F-DOPA with PET based SRI, studies have not been able to demonstrate any significant advantages. Accordingly, on a lesion basis several studies have shown better lesion detection performance of 68 Ga-SSA-PET when compared head-to-head with 18 FDOPA. 41 -43 Therefore, although it cannot be ruled out that 18 F-DOPAmay have value in single cases, especially in the rare events of SST negative Si-NET with low Ki-67, when also considering the availability of 18 F-FDG PET, we see no role for 18 F-DOPA in Si-NET in general.

A summary of the work up for Si-NETs is provided in Figure 2.

## Recommendations :

The initial staging investigation should always be performed using CT or MRI with contrast enhancement and CT should be acquired as a triple-phase scan (RECOMMENDATION A-2a).

MRI using contrast (RECOMENDATION A-2a), is the best method for accurate assessment of liver metastases and in young patients to reduce radiation dose.

Use of SRI with PET/CT or PET/MRI is recommended in the diagnostic work-up and staging (RECOMMENDATION B-2a), selection of patients for PRRT (RECOMMENDATION A-1b) and therapy monitoring in selected scenarios (RECOMMENDATION B-2b). In addition, 18

F-FDG PET may be valuable for risk stratification and prior to PRRT in patients with NET G2/ G3

(RECOMMENDATION B-3a). The role of 18 F-DOPA, if any, is limited in Si-NET (RECOMMENDATION C-3b).

## 4 | WHAT IS THE ROLE OF SURGERY IN LOCALISED SI-NET?

All localised, resectable Si-NET should be operated, since this is the only chance for long-term cure given the high rate of lymph node metastases even in tumours &lt;10 mm. A recent systematic review showed that the 90-day mortality after surgery for Si-NET is higher in low-volume centres compared to high-volume hospitals (4% vs. 1%). 44 Frequently, patients affected by Si-NET are operated in an emergency setting due to intestinal occlusion or bleeding in centres with different levels of expertise, and as consequence with risk for inappropriate surgical management with regard to lymphadenectomy and resection of all NET that are often multiple in the small bowel. Therefore, it is crucial to refer these patients to dedicated, high-volume centres, to properly evaluate Si-NET surgery and to plan for an adequate reoperation with vessel- and bowel sparing surgery. In those rare cases of asymptomatic localised Si-NET that are incidentally discovered, surgery is always the treatment of choice. The extent of nodal involvement and the degree of mesenteric fibrosis (MF) represent the main determinants of surgical resectability. In particular, the possibility to perform a successful radical resection with adequate lymphadenectomy is strictly related to the localisation of superior mesenteric vessel encasement. The definition of surgical resectability should take especially into account the degree of arterial involvement by lymph-node metastases according to the classification of Ohrvall and colleagues. 45 In particular, Si-NET with stage III nodal involvement might be difficult to resect, whereas Si-NET with stage 0, I, or II nodal involvement are generally considered resectable. 46

An appropriate surgical resection of Si-NET has to meet specific criteria, including manual palpation of the entire small intestine and an adequate lymphadenectomy preserving as much small intestine as possible. An accurate manual palpation aims to detect multiple synchronous tumours. These tumours are found in 40% -60% of patients and are usually not detected by the preoperative imaging. 45,47 The aim of surgery is to perform a systematic lymphadenectomy avoiding a short bowel syndrome. For this reason, the surgical approach should not be a ' pizza pie ' approach (including a large intestinal resection), but a retrograde vessel-sparing lymphadenectomy. 45,47 It has been shown in a recent retrospective study that the resected bowel specimen is shortened by about half, when using this technique. 47

Si-NET are frequently associated with MF that might cause bowel obstruction and bowel ischaemia. MF occurs more frequently in male patients than women and patients affected by MF have a significant poorer OS compared to those without MF. 20 Surgery remains the cornerstone of treatment in patients who report symptoms related to MF such as abdominal pain or present with bowel obstruction. Nevertheless, the oncological benefits of surgical resection in patients with MF remain controversial. A large retrospective series found that patients with MF and metastatic Si-NET showed no improvement of survival rates after palliative surgery. 20 There may however be a symptomatic benefit.

There are some conflicting results on the minimum number of lymph nodes to be retrieved during surgery but it seems that adequate lymphadenectomy should include at least 8 lymph nodes for examination. 48 A recent multi-institutional series on surgical treatment of Si-NET of the terminal ileum, found that patients who underwent formal right hemicolectomy had similar long-term outcomes compared to those who underwent ileocaecectomy. 49 Another singlecentre study showed that right hemicolectomy is a positive prognostic factor regarding recurrence in localised Si-NET in the distal ileum. 50 Figure 3 summarises treatment planning for Si-NET.

The number of metastatic lymph nodes is the main prognostic factor and determinant of disease recurrence after radical surgery. 48 Patients with more than 4 metastatic nodes have a 3-year recurrence free survival of 80% compared to 90% and 93% in patients with 1 -3 and 0 nodal metastases, respectively. 5-years recurrence rates of 30% -40% are reported in retrospective series (e.g., 48, 50). Since the role of adjuvant therapy, however, has yet not been explored, it is not indicated outside board approved studies.

A minimally-invasive approach for Si-NET resection has increasingly gained acceptance especially in high-volume centres. 51 Laparoscopic approach showed similar results in terms of number of resected lymph nodes and long-term outcomes compared to open approach. 51 Nevertheless, minimally-invasive surgery for Si-NET remains controversial, since an open approach has some proposed advantages such as manual palpation of the entire small intestine, a safer vascular control, especially when performing a vessel-sparing lymphadenectomy. 50 Even when sometimes small SI-NEN are diagnosed by colonoscopy, endoscopic removal should not be performed. Resection of the primary tumour might not be complete or complicated (e.g., risk of perforation) and potentially metastatic lymph nodes will not be targeted.

The role of prophylactic cholecystectomy during resection for SiNET is another controversial issue. Recently, it has been demonstrated that on-demand surgery can be considered non-inferior to the prophylactic cholecystectomy in patients affected by Si-NET. 52

Following curative resection, there is no evidence supporting the use of adjuvant strategies for NET 53 and current evidence supports follow-up only.

## Recommendations :

All localised, resectable Si-NET should be operated on using organsparing techniques in high-volume centres (RECOMMENDATION-A2b). The surgical gold standard includes an open approach with bimanual palpation of the entire small intestine and a vessel-sparing lymphadenectomy (at least &gt;8 lymph nodes) aiming to limit the extent of small intestine resection (RECOMMENDATION A-2b). Adjuvant therapy following curative resection for Si-NET is not indicated. The oncological benefits of surgical resection in patients with MF remain controversial (RECOMMENDATION C-4).

## 5 | WHAT IS THE RECOMMENDED FIRSTLINE SYSTEMIC TREATMENT FOR ADVANCED DISEASE?

SSA are well established as first line treatment in patients with CS 7 and for antiproliferative effect (regardless of functionality) based on

RFA- radiofrequency ablation; PVEIL - portal vein embolisation/ligation; ALPPS: associating liver partition with portal vein ligation

FIGURE 3 Treatment planning for Si-NET (part 1).

the results of two placebo-controlled phase 3 trials 54,55 (Figure 4). The PROMID trial included therapy-naïve midgut NET patients, the majority being NET G1 and SST positive although these were not inclusion criteria. The CLARINET trial included non-functioning SST positive advanced GEP-NET with a proliferation rate up to a Ki-67 of 10%. 56 Nearly all patients had a stable disease at the time of treatment start. These trials demonstrated significant prolongation of time to progression and progression free survival (PFS) compared to placebo, respectively, whereas a benefit on OS could not be proven, however the vast majority of patients crossed over to open label SSA upon progression on placebo. 57 Objective remissions with SSA are rare. No clear superiority of one SSA over another has been shown. 58 Quality of life is maintained or even improved during treatment. 59 It is therefore widely accepted that SSA (either lanreotide autogel [AG] or octreotide long acting release [LAR]) is the preferred first-line treatment in the presence of advanced G1 or G2 (especially if Ki-67 below 10%) Si-NET suitable for systemic therapy. SSA are generally a welltolerated treatment except for mostly transient gastrointestinal (GI) side effects. Patients may develop pancreatic insufficiency with steatorrhoea, in which case pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy should be provided.

There are a few scenarios when SSA are not the preferred firstline treatment:

1. In grade 1, asymptomatic, low tumour burden and stable Si-NET a watch and wait strategy may be applied delaying start of treatment with SSA until progression occurs. The CLARINET study showed
2. anti-proliferative activity of lanreotide AG in patients with progressive disease who crossed over from placebo. 60
2. Around 10% of patients with well-differentiated Si-NET do not show expression of SST. In patients with tumour lesions less than 1 cm in size a SR-PET/CT should be performed (as generally recommended) to exclude false negative lesions. Although also receptor-independent mechanisms of SSA effects have been described, the antiproliferative effect is mediated via binding to SST. 61 Therefore, in patients with SST negative disease other treatment strategies are needed.
4. /C14 IFNα has been used for three decades in Si-NET patients for antisecretory as well as antiproliferative purposes. 62 Prospective data are mainly available for combination treatment of IFNα with octreotide in GEP-NET patients resulting in 6 months median time to progression in patients with progressive disease at baseline. 63 However, in a large phase 3 study in patients with ' carcinoids ' including a mixed patient population of NET G1 and G2 patients with either progressive disease or other poor prognostic factors including around 36% midgut NET, a median PFS of 15.4 months was achieved with octreotide LAR and IFNα . 64 The objective response rate was lower with 4% as compared to older publications. 64 Side effects have to be taken into consideration. The use of IFNα is limited due to lack of availability.
5. /C14 Everolimus is approved for progressive non-functioning Si-NET based on the results of the RADIANT-4 trial. The percentage of patients who were treatment naïve (first-line) in this study is

FIGURE 4 Treatment planning for Si-NET (part 2).

unclear. In patients with gastrointestinal primary the median PFS was 13.1 months in the everolimus arm compared to 5.4 months in the placebo-arm. 65,66 The response rate was 2% in patients treated with everolimus. Common toxicities include stomatitis, infections, diabetes, diarrhoea and pneumonitis, therefore careful follow up investigations and active side effect management is needed. Although everolimus is an approved therapy in progressive disease, locoregional therapies could be considered upfront.

3. The role of SSA in patients with NET G2 and proliferation rate above 10% is less clear, especially if a rapid progression is documented or if a high tumour burden is present. 56 In these scenarios, more intense treatments are probably needed. Options of first-line systemic treatment in this setting may include everolimus, PRRT or systemic chemotherapy.
2. /C14 Everolimus may be utilised in this patient group in the presence of moderate tumour burden and moderate progression (based on the RADIANT-4 trial). 65,66
3. /C14 The use of upfront PRRT in selected SST positive NET patients with Ki-67 &lt;10% is not an officially registered therapy but may be considered particularly in patients with high tumour burden if enrolment in a clinical trial is not feasible. It remains unclear which is the best treatment option in NET G2/ G3 patients with higher proliferation rate. The use of PRRT is supported by the NETTER-2 study results evaluating 177 Lu-DOTATATE versus high dose octreotide (double standard dose) in patients with higher proliferating tumours. 67 In this phase III study, patients with newly diagnosed somatostatin receptor-positive NET G2 or G3 (Ki-67 ≥ 10% and ≤ 55%) advanced GEP-NETs (29.2% of small intestine origin) who had been randomised to the 177 Lu-

DOTATATE arm showed an improved median PFS (22.8 vs. 8.5 months); stratified HR 0.276 (95% CI 0.182, 0.418; p &lt; .0001) and overall response rate (43.0% vs. 9.3%). It is expected that patients represented in the NETTER-2 study are highly selected (i.e., patients who could have been randomised to high-dose SSA and therefore not in need of urgent reduction of tumour burden or other more aggressive therapies). The issue of the appropriate therapy in NET with Ki-67 from 15% to 55% is currently further investigated in the COMPOSE trial (PRRT vs. physicians choice, either everolimus or systemic chemotherapy).

- /C14 The best chemotherapy regimen is unclear 68 and could include temozolomide and capecitabine, 5-Fluorouracil-based schedules such as FOLFOX or combinations of capecitabine with SSA. A French phase II trial reported favourable results with capecitabine in combination with bevacizumab with a median PFS of 23.4 months. 69 Altogether, data for use of chemotherapy in SiNET is very limited and patients with high Ki-67 should preferentially be considered for clinical trials. Chemotherapy should only be used in highly selected patients, especially when high Ki-67, high tumour burden and/ or rapid tumour progression within 6 months or less is present.
4. NET G3 of small intestinal origin are rare and the best strategy in patients with advanced disease is unknown. Despite having more evidence for pancreatic than for Si-NET, most centres use chemotherapy with temozolomide in combination with capecitabine or FOLFOX as a first-line therapy. 70,71 This is based on the fact that adenocarcinoma-like and alkylating-based chemotherapies may be the most effective treatments in this setting, especially in terms of response rate and PFS, with etoposide-platinum chemotherapy

showing poor efficacy. 71 In carefully selected patients everolimus could be utilised. In addition, in selected patients with homogeneous SST expression PRRT may also be an option. 72 The NETTER-2 study supports the use of PRRT in selected NET G3 (see section above). 67 The COMPOSE (NCT04919226) study will provide more insight into the management of NET G3 with PRRT as compared to other therapies, such as everolimus, and chemotherapy (Temozolomide + Capecitabine or FOLFOX). Patients with NET G3 should preferentially be included in clinical trials.

## Recommendations :

In the presence of advanced unresectable Si-NET G1 or G2 longacting SSA (either lanreotide or octreotide) is the preferred first-line treatment (RECOMMENDATION A-1b). Watch and wait may be an option in selected patients (G1, asymptomatic, low tumour burden and/ or stable Si-NET) (RECOMMENDATION B-2b). In patients with advanced disease and SST negative lesions IFN α

(RECOMMENDATION A-2b) or everolimus (RECOMMENDATION A-1b) can be used as first-line treatment if locoregional therapy is not an appropriate option. In patients with advanced intestinal NET G2 with Ki-67 &gt;10% everolimus (RECOMMENDATION A-1b) and PRRT (RECOMMENDATION A-1b) are treatment options for selected patients. Chemotherapy has a minor role in highly selected patients (especially NET G3, and/or rapid tumour progression)

(RECOMMENDATION C-4). Patients with NET G3 should be enrolled in clinical trials.

## 6 | WHAT IS THE RECOMMENDED TREATMENT BEYOND FIRST-LINE SSA THERAPY?

When considering antiproliferative therapy in Si-NET pathological grade, SST expression, volume of disease, associated symptoms and comorbidities are key factors (Figure 4). However, clinical trial data and predictive biomarkers are currently lacking to guide the sequence of systemic therapy. Overall, following progression on SSA, treatment with PRRT for patients with SST positive tumour lesions and everolimus for patients with SST negative lesions are the most likely scenarios. Thirdline therapy following these are more difficult to state and may rely on prior treatment and specific characteristics at the time of progression, making discussion in a multidisciplinary team of huge relevance. 73 The presence of CS may impact the choice of treatment for patients with Si-NET following SSA, this is further discussed in section 8.

## 6.1 | PRRT

In the NETTER-1 phase 3 study patients with advanced progressive Si-NET were randomised to four cycles of 177 Lutetium ( 177 Lu)DOTATATE (every 8 weeks) combined with Octreotide LAR 30 mg every 28 days or high dose Octreotide LAR 60 mg every 4 weeks. This study showed a significant benefit in terms of PFS for 177 Lu-

DOTATATE combined with SSA compared to high-dose SSA with a hazard ratio 0.21 ( p &lt; .001). 74 This was associated with a durable benefit (median PFS exceeding 28 months) and improved quality of life with the most significant benefit seen in global health but also overall physical and role function. Additionally there were symptomatic benefits for diarrhoea, pain and fatigue in terms of prolonged time to worsening of symptoms as compared to SSA. 75 The final analysis of NETTER-1 performed 5 years after the last patient was enrolled, reported no additional long-term safety signals with 2% of patients developing myelodysplastic syndrome. 76 Renal side effects may occur but are usually mild. PRRT is therefore considered the standard second-line treatment option in the presence of homogenous SSTpositive disease. Major tumour shrinkage is, however, rarely achieved; the objective response rate in NETTER-1 was 18%. PRRT was followed by octreotide LAR at standard dose, however, it is not proven, that (in the absence of carcinoid syndrome) maintenance therapy with SSA is superior to just observation after application of PRRT, although some retrospective data suggest its additional value. Maintenance therapy with SSA should be given if patients have high tumour burden.

## 6.2 | Rechallenge on PRRT

In view of the significant beneficial outcome of treatment with 177 LuDOTATATE and with limited other treatment options, there is a strong rationale for rechallenge (retreatment) with PRRT in case of persistent homogenous SST expression. The current consensus is that rechallenge PRRT may have a role for selected patients and that it could be delivered outside clinical trials if available. This could be considered especially if the disease was controlled for at least 9 -12 months following the last cycle of PRRT. If utilised, rechallenge with PRRT would be delivering two more cycles of PRRT, and this could be repeated again in the case of progression after another &gt;12 months and if the treatment was well tolerated. 77 In a recent meta-analysis 78 the pooled median PFS in patients initially treated with either 90 Y- or 177 Lu-PRRT who were given rechallenge treatment with 177 Lu-DOTATATE (5 studies, 272 patients) was 12.26 months and the patients who received only 177 Lu-DOTATATE had PFS 13.4 months. The median OS in two studies included in the meta-analysis for rechallenge PRRT was 26.8 months from the start of retreatment. The safety profile after rechallenge was similar to initial therapy with grade 3 or 4 haematological toxicity reported in 9% of patients and no patients reported for grade 3 or 4 renal toxicity. Thus rechallenge PRRT appears to be safe and demonstrates encouraging efficacy for selected patients. Prospective studies are ongoing to assess its value as compared to alternative treatment options such as everolimus.

## 6.3 | High dose SSA

There are some retrospective and few prospective studies reporting data for tumour control with high dose SSA. 56,79,80 Although PRRT

with continuation of standard dose octreotide LAR was more effective as compared with double standard dose of octreotide LAR in midgut NET patients in the NETTER-1 trial, the median PFS was 8.4 months with octreotide 60 mg/month. 74 The CLARINET forte trial evaluating the efficacy of lanreotide AG 120 mg every 14 days in patients with progressive Si-NET or Pan-NET following first-line standard-dose lanreotide AG treatment (120 mg every 28 days) reported a very similar median PFS of 8.3 months in the midgut cohort. 81 In patients with Ki-67 ≤ 10% median PFS was 8.6 months. Median duration of response was 13.8 months. Based on these studies, above-label SSA is mainly an option in patients with slowly growing, low proliferative (Ki-67 ≤ 10%) and/or low tumour burden Si-NET where a meaningful delay to more toxic treatments can be reached. The control arm of the NETTER-2 study is challenging this assumption since a median PFS of 8.5 months was achieved with octreotide 60 mg/ month even in patients with Ki-67 above 10%. High dose SSA can also be used in patients with comorbidities such as severe renal insufficiency or impaired bone marrow function in whom PRRT is contraindicated or everolimus is not an option.

## 6.4 | Everolimus

Everolimus given orally at 10 mg/day is EMA approved for G1/G2 intestinal, pancreatic and lung NET. Across all NET the overall response rate (ORR) was &lt;10% and this should be taken into consideration when selecting systemic therapy, as those patients with significant symptoms from large volume disease may not benefit symptomatically. The RADIANT-4 trial investigated everolimus in 302 GI and lung NET patients. The median PFS was 11 months with everolimus and 3.9 months with placebo [hazard ratio (HR) 0.48], with PFS prolongation seen in the GI subgroup [HR 0.56]. 65 However, a heterogeneous response was identified on post hoc analysis with limited benefit identified in indolent Si-NET. 66 Everolimus is currently recommended following PRRT in patients with SST expressing NET given the good tolerability of PRRT, favourable impact on quality of life and durable benefit although data from a prospective randomised trial is still lacking. However, in patients with absent or insufficient SST expression without CS, everolimus is the treatment of choice in progressive G1/G2 Si-NET. The ongoing phase III COMPETE trial (NCT03049189) will compare everolimus to PRRT with 177 Luedotreotide and will provide further evidence regarding adequate sequencing of treatment.

## 6.5 | Tyrosine kinase inhibitors

Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) are currently not approved in Si-NET in Europe but could be an option for patients with Si-NET with low or no SST expression or after failure to established standard therapies. Several phase II trials with TKIs including cabozantinib, lenvatinib, pazopanib and axitinib have demonstrated some efficacy in SiNET. 82 -88 Axitinib and octreotide LAR demonstrated a prolongation of median PFS compared to placebo and octreotide LAR in central review of a randomised phase III trial in patients with extra-pancreatic NET (however failed to reach significant results in local radiological analysis what was the primary endpoint of the trial). The activity of cabozantinib has been confirmed in a randomised placebo-controlled phase III study, that showed prolongation of PFS with decisions regarding approval for this indication still pending. 89 If accessible, a TKI may be considered (outside clinical trial setting) after failure of standard therapies (before chemotherapy) or in SST negative patients in case of intolerance to everolimus or IFNα , or after failure of these therapies.

## 6.6 | Chemotherapy

Efficacy of systemic chemotherapy in G1/G2 Si-NET is poor with ORR of 11.5% (range 5.8% -17.2%). 68 However, in very selected cases of NET G2 with a higher Ki-67 (15% -20%) or in NET G3, in case of rapid clinical or radiological progression or where any aspects exclude other treatment options chemotherapy can be beneficial. When doing so, temozolomide and capecitabine or FOLFOX are the recommended schedules to use. Assessment of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPD) testing to identify DPD deficiency (associated with poor metabolism of 5-FU or capecitabine) is recommended if these drugs are used; with dose adjustment if DPD deficiency is identified.

## Recommendations :

The recommended second-line treatment in the presence of SSTpositive Si-NET is PRRT (RECOMMENDATION A-1b), followed by everolimus (RECOMMENDATION A-1b). Rechallenge PPRT (RECOMMENDATION C-4) and high dose SSA (RECOMMENDATION B-2) may be considered in selected scenarios. TKI may be considered based on accessibility and reimbursement after failure to approved therapies or in SST negative NET (RECOMMENDATION C-2b). Chemotherapy is rarely recommended for Si-NET unless NET G2 with higher Ki-67 (15% -20%) or NET G3, with rapid tumour progression (RECOMMENDATION C-3).

## 7 | WHAT IS THE ROLE OF LOCOREGIONAL AND ABLATIVE THERAPIES I N ADVANCED SI-NET?

For Si-NET patients with resectable G1/G2 liver metastases without extrahepatic tumour spread identified after thorough work-up (including MRI as well as functional imaging) and with no significant comorbidities, a curative surgical approach is the treatment of choice. This is supported by large series reporting favourable 5-year OS rates of 71% -74% 90,91 and 85% for all resected and R0 resected patients, 92 respectively. For Si-NET, there is no established cut-off value for Ki67 to exclude patients from surgery of resectable liver metastases. However, it has been shown in a retrospective study that the PFS is about half in patients with G3 liver metastases compared to G1/G2

metastases. 93 Therefore, surgery for Si-NET G3 patients with potentially resectable single or few liver metastases should be discussed critically in the MDT. Furthermore, the recurrence rate after R0 resection for G1/G2 tumours, is high (about 80% in 5 years) and therefore a follow-up strategy is needed. 90 The same is true for patients with resectable liver metastases of NET G1/G2 with unknown primary. In patients with not completely resectable liver metastases and/or unresectable extrahepatic metastatic disease debulking surgery might be considered after MDT discussion in case of functional NET (carcinoid syndrome) or local liver problems such as bile duct obstruction caused by the metastases.

For patients with G1/G2 Si-NET with predominant liver metastases who are not surgical candidates due to either performance status or extent of liver disease, liver-directed therapies such as radiofrequency ablation (RFA), microwave ablation (MWA), irreversible electroporation (IRE), transarterial embolization (TAE), or chemoembolization (TACE) and radioembolization (TARE), can be applied to provide local tumour control and improve symptoms of CS. 94 -96 The details of advantages and disadvantages of the distinct techniques are beyond the scope of this guidance paper and high-quality evidence supporting one treatment approach over another as well as for the optimal treatment sequencing is still very limited. Centres are encouraged to take into account the treatment options in which they have most experience on at the time of decision making. From a clinical point of view, percutaneous ablation techniques (RFA, MWA, IRE) are the treatments of choice in patients with oligometastatic disease (preferably maximum of 3 -5 metastases and &lt;3 cm in size) or oligoprogressive disease (1 or 2 metastases not responding to systemic treatment). It has been reported that in patients who underwent locoregional treatment for focal liver progression, the median time to new systemic therapy was 32 months. 97 Larger size, hilar location, and the proximity to major bile ducts can increase the risk of complications, while proximity to large vessels can result in a cooling effect reducing its effectiveness. For patients with metastases &gt;3 cm, aforementioned risk factors for ablation or with multifocal unior bilobular disease, transarterial therapies such as TAE, TACE or TARE are usually indicated. Few studies have compared different transarterial strategies. A recent retrospective study noted no difference between TACE and TARE regarding PFS and OS rates. 98 An ongoing randomised controlled trial comparing TAE, TACE and drugeluting beads (DEB)-TACE had to close the DEB-TACE arm due to increased severe complications. 99 Based on the limited high-quality data, MDT decisions regarding liver-directed therapies are significantly influenced by institutional preferences and local experience of distinct techniques. 20,95

Palliative resection of the primary Si-NET in patients with advanced disease is also a matter of debate. Surgical resection or intestinal bypass are mandatory in the presence of primary-related complications such as intestinal obstruction, ischaemia or haemorrhage. The advantage of prophylactic surgery in asymptomatic patients affected by Si-NET is more controversial. Several retrospective studies have been performed. 100 Most of these studies lack important information, such as the burden of metastatic disease, the cause of unresectable tumours, and the use and the type of associated

systemic therapies. Moreover, palliative surgical resection has most probably been offered more frequently to patients with better performance status and less aggressive disease. Given this high-risk of bias, primary tumour resection is seemingly associated with a benefit in terms of survival compared to no resection. 101,102 However, there are at least three studies that have tried to remove selection bias by using propensity-score matching, and these studies show no benefit in terms of survival. 20,103,104 Regarding timing of prophylactic surgery, the need of an upfront surgical approach in patients with asymptomatic stage IV Si-NET, has been challenged by a large retrospective study. 103 In this study only 22% of patients in the surgery as needed group had to undergo surgery during follow-up. Delayed locoregional surgery (&gt;6 months from diagnosis) in patients with advanced Si-NET is associated with similar overall and disease-specific survival compared to surgery performed within 6 months from initial diagnosis. 103 Two recent retrospective studies 105,106 have shown that the combination of Si-NET resection and PRRT provides the best disease-specific survival for patients with diffuse stage IV disease, especially if the metastatic liver burden is less than 50%. 106 At present the question is open and its firm answer requires a prospective controlled trial. Thus, benefit and risk of the primary tumour resection in asymptomatic patients with unresectable stage IV disease should be discussed with the patient and in the MDT. A rare consideration could be resection of the primary tumour to leave a patient with liver only disease and the consideration in selected individuals for orthotopic liver transplantation.

Cytoreduction for Si-NET with peritoneal carcinomatosis has been demonstrated to be effective with acceptable morbidity and mortality rates in selected patients. 107 In a recent retrospective analysis of 98 patients, Si-NET patients without liver metastases and only localised peritoneal carcinomatosis in one abdominal quadrant with lesions &lt;5 mm benefit the most. Their OS was 76 months compared to 32 months in patients with diffuse peritoneal carcinomatosis and lesions &gt;5 mm. 107 Thus, Si-NET patients with or without resectable liver metastases with limited peritoneal carcinomatosis are good candidates for cytoreductive surgery. 84 The role of hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy (HIPEC) in addition to cytoreduction in patients with peritoneal carcinomatosis has been retrospectively explored in Si-NET. 108 Based on these results it cannot be recommended for patients with Si-NET and peritoneal carcinomatosis at present.

## Recommendations :

In patients with Si-NET G1/G2 stage IV disease and exclusive liver metastases a surgical approach is indicated, if R0 resection can be achieved (Recommendation B-4). In non-surgical candidates locoregional liver-directed therapies should be explored in predominant liver disease to control tumour growth, CS and oligometastatic progression (Recommendation B-3). Cytoreductive peritoneal surgery is recommended in patients with localised peritoneal carcinomatosis (Recommendation A-4). Benefit and risk of a primary tumour resection in asymptomatic patients with unresectable stage IV disease should be discussed critically with the patient and in the MDT.

## 8 | WHICH IS THE BEST THERAPEUTIC STRATEGY IN PATIENTS WITH CARCINOID SYNDROME FOR SYNDROME AND TUMOUR GROWTH CONTROL?

Refractory CS (especially with worsening bowel movements (BM) or flushing) may be a challenging scenario faced by clinicians treating NET. Refractory CS has recently been defined by ENETS as ' recurring or persisting CS symptoms and increasing or persistently high u5-HIAA levels despite the use of standard doses of SSA ' . Refractory CS is classified as ' non-aggressive or aggressive ' , based on symptom burden together with disease status (stable or progressive), hepatic tumour burden, and/or the presence of CHD. 7

In the presence of CS, the recommendations for antiproliferative therapy as outlined above (see Q6) may not be applicable, and alternative approaches (i.e., early liver directed therapies) may be considered. The requirements for treatment may also be different since patients may suffer from increasing symptoms but may not necessarily display obvious tumour growth. It is of crucial importance to determine the treatment goals first, either improvement of CS symptoms, tumour growth control or both.

## 8.1 | Aiming for symptom control

In the scenario of refractory CS on SSA without evidence of disease progression, the aim of the treatment should focus on achieving an antisecretory effect.

High dose of SSA can be considered 7 and has often been applied in clinical routine. It is supported by retrospective analyses but there is a lack of high quality data or evidence based randomised controlled trials. 56 High dose SSA implies above labelled dose that can either be reached by shortening of the injection interval or by increasing the dose and maintaining the standard interval of 28 days. In retrospective trials symptomatic improvement for diarrhoea is reported in up to 79% 109 and for flushing in up to 91% of patients. 110 The only prospective randomised trial in patients with refractory CS compared an above label dose of octreotide LAR (40 mg) with pasireotide LAR 60 mg (a universal ligand to SST) every 28 days 111 and reported symptom control in 27% and 21% of patients, respectively. Based on these data high dose of SSA can be used for symptom control in refractory CS.

Addition of short acting octreotide s.c. to depot preparations of SSA as rescue therapy for breakthrough symptoms may also be an option. 112,113 Pasireotide may be considered off-label in patients suffering from CS when other options have been exploited.

Telotristat ethyl, an oral inhibitor of the serotonin synthesis, significantly reduced diarrhoea and 5-HIAA levels in patients with refractory CS in two randomised placebo-controlled trials. 107,108 Flushing was not significantly improved as expected since it is related to secretion of other bioactive compounds than serotonin. The drug was generally well-tolerated, treatment related adverse events included nausea, abdominal pain and elevation of gamma-glutamyl transferase. 114 Addition of telotristat ethyl to SSA is recommended in CS patients with refractory diarrhoea.

The use of liver directed therapies for poorly controlled CS should be considered upfront. In addition to debulking surgery, locoregional treatments can achieve symptomatic as well as tumour response. Evidence from prospective controlled trials is lacking. A recent review including more than 100 mainly retrospective studies and 5000 patients reported a symptomatic response in 55.2%. 95 Outcome did not significantly vary depending on the type of embolization performed with a tendency for better symptomatic and tumour size response after radioembolization. However, radioembolization should be used with caution in patients with Si-NET given the risk of long-term sequelae including liver fibrosis and cirrhosis, particularly in low grade Si-NET who may have a long life expectancy exceeding 8 years. In general, bland embolization is usually preferred. In patients with persisting symptoms of CS despite SSA treatment, locoregional treatment of liver metastases should be discussed early in the MDT.

IFNα is an approved antisecretory treatment for patients with CS and may alleviate not only diarrhoea but also flushing. Due to more side effects compared to SSA, it is usually used as an add-on option in patients with refractory CS or upfront in SST negative NET patients. Symptomatic response was reported in 50% -70% of patients. 62,115 The recommended dose is 3 -5 MU/week, an off-label pegylated formulation once weekly may be better tolerated, 116 but availability is limited due to discontinued production of some compounds.

PRRT is mainly used for its antiproliferative effects based on the results of the NETTER-1 trial and its labelled indication in progressive disease (see Q6). 74 The proportion of patients suffering from CS symptoms on PRRT plus standard dose of octreotide versus high dose octreotide was the same. However, in NETTER-1 the median time to deterioration (TTD) of diarrhoea in a subset of patients with CS was significantly longer with PRRT and standard dose of octreotide LAR as compared to high-dose octreotide ( p = .0107), whereas TTD for flushing was not significantly different when comparing treatment arms. 75 A small retrospective monocentric study reported efficacy in refractory CS patients without documented disease progression; number of bowel movements as well as frequency of flushing episodes were reduced after PRRT with 177 Lu-DOTATATE. 117 In highly symptomatic patients, however, symptom control is crucial before PRRT, and withdrawal of long-acting SSA prior to PRRT may lead to worsening of diarrhoea (eventually associated with renal insufficiency). Therefore, other options should be considered upfront for improvement of symptoms. Caution is also required in patients with CHD, where compensation of heart insufficiency may be required first and an experienced cardiologist should be consulted, (see separate guidance paper on CHD). 7

Everolimus plays a minor, if any role in patients where syndrome control is the goal. However, in the RADIANT-2 study, everolimus plus octreotide LAR resulted in greater reductions of urinary 5-HIAA compared with placebo plus octreotide LAR, but the efficacy on symptom control was not reported in this trial. 118 Reduction of 5-HIAA was sustainable and since reduction of 5-HIAA usually is associated with symptom improvement, an (off label) addition of everolimus may be considered in patients with CS, particularly if there is progressive disease and an antiproliferative therapy is warranted. A benefit on symptoms is also supported by a small retrospective study reporting symptom control in 7 of 10 patients with the addition of everolimus to SSA. 119 Patients should be controlled for development of hyperglycaemia or diabetes when everolimus is combined with SSA.

## 8.2 | Aiming for antiproliferative effect

In the presence of CS and evidence of disease progression, management may be complex since not all treatments with an antisecretory effect have proven anticancer effect (i.e., telotristat ethyl) and also because some treatments have not shown definitive activity in the presence of CS (i.e., everolimus). 118

IFNα , if available may be a preferred therapy in these patients because it also exerts antiproliferative effects. In addition to symptomatic response (see above) tumour control was reported with a median PFS of 15.4 months and a response rate of 4% when combined with SSA. 64

The use of high-dose SSA is supported by the CLARINET forte study and the control arm of NETTER-1 study in patients with Ki-67 &lt;10%. In patients with comorbidities, elderly patients or patients with indolent tumour growth, this may be an alternative approach when more aggressive therapies seem inappropriate or growth is slow over several years.

In the RADIANT-2 phase 3 trial, the primary endpoint PFS by central reading narrowly missed the prespecified threshold of significance ( p = .026). Therefore, everolimus is not registered for patients with a history of CS. It may be considered in patients with significant growth when other options have been exploited (such as high dose SSA, locoregional therapies and PRRT).

PRRT is regarded as the standard antiproliferative second line treatment for metastatic and progressive SST positive Si-NET (see Q6). This treatment was more effective than high dose octreotide in patients regardless of the presence of carcinoid syndrome. PRRT is a good treatment option in patients with progressive disease especially if extrahepatic metastases are present. In liver predominant disease embolization treatment can induce fast symptomatic response and high radiological response rates (the objective response rate of pooled data in a recent review was 36.6%). 95 In the presence of CS even a higher symptomatic response rate was seen (70%). 7 PRRT can be recommended as preferred option although evidence from prospective controlled trials is not available.

Recommendations :

In patients with CS, a multidisciplinary approach is of crucial importance.

In patients with refractory CS and predominant diarrhoea, telotristat ethyl should be added to SSA (Recommendation A-1a). SSA dose escalation can be considered in patients with refractory CS (Recommendation A-3b) or alternatively addition of IFNα (Recommendation B-2b). Locoregional and ablative treatments including debulking surgery, should be considered early for refractory CS (Recommendation B-3a). PRRT represents an option

(Recommendation B-3b), especially if progressive metastatic disease is present. Everolimus may be considered in individual patients in combination with SSA if significant tumour growth is present after exploitation of other options (Recommendation C-4).

## 9 | WHAT ARE THE MOST RECENT DEVELOPMENTS FOR SI-NET?

## 9.1 | Molecular profiling and precision medicine

Despite molecular profiling being widely explored in Si-NET, precision medicine strategies in this patient population are scarce and remain investigational 120 due to lack of specific mutations and rather presence of epigenetic alterations. Routine genomic profiling of tumour tissue is not recommended, but might be considered in patients with Si-NET (if available and reimbursed) when all treatment options have been exploited, but it is important to manage patients' expectations regarding the very low likelihood of the results impacting their treatment options. 120

## 9.2 | Latest developments on systemic treatments for Si-NET: targeting angiogenesis

Regarding new systemic therapy options for Si-NET, multiple clinical trials have been reported over the last few years related to antiangiogenic tyrosine-kinase inhibitors (TKIs) with promising results. However, only sunitinib is registered in Europe for Pan-NET so far. 121 SiNET patients were not included in the pivotal phase 3 clinical trial with sunitinib, and thus the field was unexplored for some time, until the recent years when a variety of TKIs have been studied in phase II and III clinical trials including Si-NET.

Some of the TKIs that have been explored in this setting include lenvatinib, 84 surufatinib, 87,122 axitinib 88,123 and pazopanib. 124 However, these compounds are not yet registered for NET in Europe. Cabozantinib is an emerging drug in this field. A phase II study with cabozantinib included a cohort of 41 heavily pretreated Si-NET patients. 125 In this study the primary endpoint was ORR. Achieved ORR in the Si-NET cohort was 15%, with 26/41 patients having disease stabilisation. Median PFS was 31.4 months (95% CI 8.5-not reached). The CABINET phase III clinical trial data including 197 patients with extra-pancreatic NETs (129 randomised on cabozantinib and 68 on placebo) supports the activity of cabozantinib with

improvement of PFS (HR 0.41; p -value &lt;.0001). 89 Data from the subgroup analysis in intestinal NET are still lacking.

Based on the study results, TKI preferably cabozantinib in view of the positive phase III trial but also lenvatinib (based on results from an uncontrolled phase 2 study with ORR 16.4% and mPFS 15.7 months in GI-NET patients) may be considered in patients in whom all treatment options have been exploited if available and reimbursed and no clinical trial available. TKI may also be a consideration in SST negative patients.

## 9.3 | Immunotherapy

Immunotherapy approaches in Si-NET have been disappointing. PDL1 expression within tumour cells has been described to be present in 12.8% of Si-NET. 126 Monotherapy with checkpoint inhibitors (CPI) has not shown much activity, regardless of expression of PD-L1 or other potential biomarkers linked to immunotherapy activity. 127 -129 Combination strategies of dual CPI such as durvalumab and tremelimumab (DUNE study) have been explored but no objective responses have been reported in the Si-NET group neither. 130 Despite this, the field is evolving and alternative combinations of immunotherapy and antiangiogenic compounds (i.e., atezolizumab and bevacizumab) look more promising (objective response rate of 15% in the extrapancreatic NET cohort with durable benefit [median PFS 14.9 months]). 131 Novel approaches such as CAR-T cells are in preclinical stage 132 ; combination of CPI with TKIs are under development.

Outside the setting of mismatch repair deficiency, microsatellite instability or high TMB, that is rather seen in poorly differentiated NEC than in well differentiated NET, immunotherapy for Si-NET cannot be recommended based on the current evidence. It remains investigational and patients should be included in clinical trials.

## Recommendations :

After failure to standard therapies, novel TKIs (RECOMMENDATION B-2b) could be considered if available, while immunotherapy has currently no place in the management of Si-NET, and strategies in this setting remain investigational (RECOMMENDATION C-2b). Patients diagnosed with Si-NET who failed available treatment options should be considered for participation in clinical trials.

## 10 | WHAT IS THE RECOMMENDED FOLLOW-UP FOR SI-NET?

## 10.1 | Imaging follow-up after surgery: curative setting

No prospective studies are available regarding the timing of follow-up and the imaging modalities to be utilised in patients who have had potentially curative resection for Si-NET. Follow-up should last for a long time (it may be required to be life-long) after resection since disease relapse can occur also 15 years after surgery. 133,134 MRI of the liver can be offered as the preferred imaging modality of follow-up for its accuracy in detecting liver metastases as the most frequent site of distant metastasis and the advantage of not exposing patients to ionising radiation. Staging intervals range between 3 and 12 months depending on extent of disease, grade, and length of follow-up. We recommend imaging 3 -6 months after surgery, followed by 6 months intervals in NET G1, and closer intervals in NET G2. Recurrence most frequently occurs within the first 5 years after curative surgery. After 5 years of being tumour-free, staging intervals may be prolonged to 1 year. 135 In patients with advanced disease (loco-regional LN involved, liver metastases), SRI is recommended after surgery within 3 -6 months, and should be repeated in long-term follow up (after 3 years or if suspicious findings on conventional imaging or clinical examination).

## 10.2 | Imaging follow-up: palliative setting

Frequency of follow-up during palliative treatment depend on clinical factors (more frequent follow-up in rapidly progressing tumours or G2 Si-NET) as well as the treatment administered. Follow-up should be performed in the form of CT or MRI with higher sensitivity for visualisation of liver metastases with MRI. After a first assessment at 3 months from starting a new treatment, imaging every 6 months for G1 Si-NET, treated with SSA may be acceptable. In contrast, patients on everolimus, IFNα , TKI and chemotherapy require imaging every 3 months as established in oncological practice. Follow-up on patients receiving PRRT should be performed first after 3 -4 months from the first cycle of PRRT, since around 20% do not respond to PRRT. The rare event of pseudoprogression should be kept in mind and SRI with PET/CT should be interpreted in the context of clinical and biochemical findings. Further re-evaluation intervals may range between 3 and 6 months depending on grade (3 months in higher NET G2 and NET G3). SRI may be recommended if clinically indicated or every 1 -3 years depending on disease spread/sites (lung, bone involvement, peritoneal carcinomatosis, diffuse LN metastases).

Staging intervals with conventional imaging should be every 3 months in NET G3 irrespective of type of treatment. An 18 F-FDGPET may be required to visualise bone metastases or other distant metastases if there is no uptake on SRI or if PRRT is a treatment option.

Bone MRI may be required if symptoms occur indicating bone lesions.

## 10.3 | Biomarker follow-up

Assessment of circulating biomarkers such as CgA, and NSE (in NET G3) and 5-HIAA; see Question 2) at the time of first diagnosis and as a baseline assessment at the time of starting a new treatment is recommended. If elevated in these conditions, biomarker

reassessment (every 3 -6 months depending on the characteristics of the NET and the treatment being monitored) along with imaging could be of use, particularly to inform about the need to expand imaging to other regions than the abdomen. In long-term follow-up circulating biomarkers, if informative in the individual patient (elevated in patients with measurable disease on imaging) may be used alternating with imaging and prompting to additional diagnostic work-up in case of significant increase.

## Recommendations :

All patients should be followed-up long-term after curative surgery (RECOMMENDATION A-4) preferably using MRI of the liver/ abdomen (RECOMMENDATION C-5). Assessment of circulating biomarkers at time of first diagnosis, and as a baseline assessment at the time of starting a new treatment is recommended (RECOMMENDATION B-4). Radiological and biomarker follow-up during palliative treatment depends on clinical factors, grading, and the type of treatment being administered. (RECOMMENDATION B-5).

## 11 | CONCLUSION

Management of Si-NET requires a multidisciplinary approach and referral to centres with adequate expertise. Accurate diagnosis and staging are crucial for proper treatment planning. Exploration of (epi)genetics, novel circulating biomarkers and improved radiology and nuclear medicine tools are ongoing areas of research in the field. Current management, especially in the setting of systemic therapies, relies on robust scientific evidence based on prospective clinical trials. Treatment options are still limited, but are expanding with novel TKIs and novel radiopeptides under development while immunotherapy has no role and novel approaches remain investigational. The most adequate sequence of therapies has still to be clarified. In the context of precision medicine the development of predictive biomarkers for tailored treatment planning is crucial.

## AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS

Angela Lamarca: Conceptualisation; methodology; visualisation; project administration; supervision; writing -review and editing; writing -original draft; validation. Detlef K. Bartsch: Methodology; writing -original draft; writing -review and editing. Martyn Caplin: Methodology; writing -original draft; writing -review and editing. Beata Kos-Kudla: Methodology; writing -original draft; writing -review and editing. Andreas Kjaer: Methodology; writing -original draft; writing -review and editing. Stefano Partelli: Methodology; writing -original draft; writing -review and editing. Anja Rinke: Methodology; writing -original draft; writing -review and editing. Eva Tiensuu Janson: Methodology; writing -original draft; writing -review and editing; supervision. Christina Thirlwell: Methodology; writing -review and editing. Marie-Louise F. van Velthuysen: Methodology; writing -original draft; writing -review and editing. Marie-Pierre Vullierme: Methodology; writing -original

draft; writing -review and editing. Marianne Pavel: Methodology; writing -original draft; writing -review and editing; supervision; visualisation; project administration; validation.

## CONFLICT OF INTEREST STATEMENT

Dr Angela Lamarca has received travel and educational support from Ipsen, Pfizer, Bayer, AAA, SirtEx, Novartis, Mylan and Delcath; speaker honoraria from Merck, Pfizer, Ipsen, Incyte, AAA, QED, Servier, Astra Zeneca and EISAI; advisory and consultancy honoraria from EISAI, Nutricia Ipsen, QED, Roche, Servier, Boston Scientific, Albireo Pharma, AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, GENFIT and TransThera Biosciences; she is member of the Knowledge Network and NETConnect Initiatives funded by Ipsen. Detlef K. Bartsch has received spekaer honoraria from AAA and Streamedup. Anja Rinke has received travel and educational support from Ipsen and Novartis, speaker honoraria from AAA, Advanz Pharma, Falk Foundation, Ipsen and Novartis and advisory honoraria from AAA, Advanz Pharma, Esteve, Ipsen and Novartis. Eva Tiensuu Janson has received speaker honoraria from Ipsen. Marie-Louise van Velthuysen has no conflict of interest. Marianne Pavel received speaker honoraria from AAA, IPSEN, BoehringerIngelheim, MSD, Lilly, Novartis, Serb, Streamedup and received fees for consultancy from Hutchmed, Riemser, AAA, IPSEN. B. Kos-Kudla: consulting and honoraria -Merck, IPSA, Ipsen, Novartis, Pfizer. Martyn Caplin received speaker honoraria/advisory board honoraria from AAA, Boehringer-Ingelheim, IPSEN, Novartis, Pfizer and research grants from AAA-Novartis and Ipsen. Andreas Kjaer is an inventor of and holds IPR on 64 Cu-DOTATATE. Marie-Pierre Vullierme is consultant for Guerbet International.

## PEER REVIEW

The peer review history for this article is available at https://www. webofscience.com/api/gateway/wos/peer-review/10.1111/jne. 13423.

## DATA AVAILABILITY STATEMENT

Data sharing not applicable to this article as no datasets were generated or analysed during the current study.

## ORCID

Angela Lamarca https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9696-6122 Beata Kos-Kudla https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3755-1722 Anja Rinke https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8156-2915 Marie-Louise F. van Velthuysen https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0435-

9494

## REFERENCES

1. Dasari A, Shen C, Halperin D, et al. Trends in the incidence, prevalence, and survival outcomes in patients with neuroendocrine tumors in the United States. JAMA Oncol . 2017;3(10):1335-1342.
2. Sorbye H, Grande E, Pavel M, et al. European Neuroendocrine Tumor Society (ENETS) 2023 guidance paper for digestive neuroendocrine carcinoma. J Neuroendocrinol . 2023;35(3):e13249.
3. WHO. WHO classification of tumours of the digestive system. 2022. https://publications.iarc.fr/Book-And-Report-Series/Who-

Classification-Of-Tumours/WHO-Classification-Of-Tumours-OfThe-Digestive-System-2010.

4. WHO. WHO classification of tumours of endocrine organs -IARC. 2022. https://www.iarc.who.int/news-events/who-classification-oftumours-of-endocrine-organs/.
5. Fraenkel M, Kim M, Faggiano A, de Herder WW, Valk GD. Incidence of gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumours: a systematic review of the literature. Endocr Relat Cancer . 2014;21(3):R153-R163.
6. White BE, Rous B, Chandrakumaran K, et al. Incidence and survival of neuroendocrine neoplasia in England 1995 -2018: a retrospective, population-based study. Lancet . 2022; https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih. gov/pmc/articles/PMC9513765/
7. Grozinsky-Glasberg S, Davar J, Hofland J, et al. European Neuroendocrine Tumor Society (ENETS) 2022 guidance paper for carcinoid syndrome and carcinoid heart disease. J Neuroendocrinol . 2022;34(7): e13146.
8. Epidemiologic trends of and factors associated with overall survival for patients with gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors in the United States -PubMed (2022). https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih. gov/34554237/.
9. Levy S, van Veenendaal LM, Korse CM, et al. Survival in patients with neuroendocrine Tumours of the small intestine: nomogram validation and predictors of survival. J Clin Med . 2020;9(8):E2502.
10. Clift AK, Kidd M, Bodei L, et al. Neuroendocrine neoplasms of the small bowel and pancreas. Neuroendocrinology . 2020;110(6): 444-476.
11. Dumanski JP, Rasi C, Björklund P, et al. A MUTYH germline mutation is associated with small intestinal neuroendocrine tumors. Endocr Relat Cancer . 2017;24(8):427-443.
12. Francis JM, Kiezun A, Ramos AH, et al. Somatic mutation of CDKN1B in small intestine neuroendocrine tumors. Nat Genet . 2013;45(12):1483-1486.
13. Karpathakis A, Dibra H, Pipinikas C, et al. Prognostic impact of novel molecular subtypes of small intestinal neuroendocrine tumor. Clin Cancer Res . 2016;22(1):250-258.
14. Halperin DM, Shen C, Dasari A, et al. Frequency of carcinoid syndrome at neuroendocrine tumour diagnosis: a population-based study. Lancet Oncol . 2017;18(4):525-534.
15. Clement D, Ramage J, Srirajaskanthan R. Update on pathophysiology, treatment, and complications of carcinoid syndrome. J Oncol . 2020;2020:8341426.
16. Del Olmo-García MI, Muros MA, López-de-la-Torre M, et al. Prevention and management of hormonal crisis during theragnosis with LUDOTA-TATE in neuroendocrine tumors. A systematic review and approach proposal. J Clin Med . 2020;9(7):E2203.
17. Bednarczuk T, Zemczak A, Bolanowski M, et al. Neuroendocrine neoplasms of the small intestine and the appendix -update of the diagnostic and therapeutic guidelines (recommended by the Polish Network of Neuroendocrine Tumours). Endokrynol pol . 2022;73(3): 549-583.
18. Strosberg JR, Halfdanarson TR, Bellizzi AM, et al. The North American Neuroendocrine Tumor Society consensus guidelines for surveillance and medical management of midgut neuroendocrine tumors. Pancreas . 2017;46(6):707-714.
19. Massimino K, Harrskog O, Pommier S, Pommier R. Octreotide LAR and bolus octreotide are insufficient for preventing intraoperative complications in carcinoid patients. J Surg Oncol . 2013;107(8): 842-846.
20. Bla ˇ zevi /C19 c A, Zandee WT, Franssen GJH, et al. Mesenteric fibrosis and palliative surgery in small intestinal neuroendocrine tumours. Endocr Relat Cancer . 2018;25(3):245-254.
21. Pantongrag-Brown L, Buetow PC, Carr NJ, Lichtenstein JE, Buck JL. Calcification and fibrosis in mesenteric carcinoid tumor: CT findings and pathologic correlation. AJR Am J Roentgenol . 1995;164(2): 387-391.
22. Dam G, Grønb æ k H, Sorbye H, et al. Prospective study of chromogranin a as a predictor of progression in patients with pancreatic, small-intestinal, and unknown primary neuroendocrine tumors. Neuroendocrinology . 2020;110(3 -4):217-224.
23. Papantoniou D, Grönberg M, Landerholm K, et al. Assessment of hormonal levels as prognostic markers and of their optimal cut-offs in small intestinal neuroendocrine tumours grade 2. Endocrine . 2021; 72(3):893-904.
24. Calanchini M, Tadman M, Krogh J, Fabbri A, Grossman A, Shine B. Measurement of urinary 5-HIAA: correlation between spot versus 24-h urine collection. Endocr Connect . 2019;8(8):1082-1088.
25. de Mestier L, Savagner F, Brixi H, et al. Plasmatic and urinary 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid measurements in patients with midgut neuroendocrine tumors: a GTE study. J Clin Endocrinol Metab . 2021; 106(4):e1673-e1682.
26. Ardill JES, Armstrong L, Smye M, Doherty R, McCance DR, Johnston BT. Neuroendocrine tumours of the small bowel: interpretation of raised circulating chromogranin a, urinary 5 hydroxy indole acetic acid and circulating neurokinin a. QJM Int J Med . 2016;109(2): 111-115.
27. Bhattacharyya S, Toumpanakis C, Caplin ME, Davar J. Usefulness of N-terminal pro-brain natriuretic peptide as a biomarker of the presence of carcinoid heart disease. Am J Cardiol . 2008;102(7): 938-942.
28. Hofland J, Lamarca A, Steeds R, et al. Synoptic reporting of echocardiography in carcinoid heart disease (ENETS carcinoid heart disease task force). J Neuroendocrinol . 2022;34(3):e13060.
29. Modlin IM, Kidd M, Falconi M, et al. A multigenomic liquid biopsy biomarker for neuroendocrine tumor disease outperforms CgA and has surgical and clinical utility. Ann Oncol . 2021;32(11):1425-1433.
30. Freis P, Graillot E, Rousset P, et al. Prognostic factors in neuroendocrine carcinoma: biological markers are more useful than histomorphological markers. Sci Rep . 2017;11(7):40609.
31. Lamarca A, Walter T, Pavel M, et al. Design and validation of the GINEC score to prognosticate overall survival in patients with highgrade gastrointestinal neuroendocrine carcinomas. J Natl Cancer Inst . 2017;109(5):djw277.
32. Sundin A, Arnold R, Baudin E, et al. ENETS consensus guidelines for the standards of care in neuroendocrine tumors: radiological, nuclear medicine &amp; hybrid imaging. Neuroendocrinology . 2017;105(3): 212-244.
33. Elias D, Lefevre JH, Duvillard P, et al. Hepatic metastases from neuroendocrine tumors with a ' thin slice ' pathological examination: they are many more than you think. Ann Surg . 2010;251(2):307-310.
34. Ronot M, Clift AK, Baum RP, et al. Morphological and functional imaging for detecting and assessing the Resectability of neuroendocrine liver metastases. Neuroendocrinology . 2018;106(1):74-88.
35. van't Sant I, Engbersen MP, Bhairosing PA, et al. Diagnostic performance of imaging for the detection of peritoneal metastases: a meta-analysis. Eur Radiol . 2020;30(6):3101-3112.
36. Minon M, Soriano C, Morland D, et al. Prospective comparison of whole-body MRI with diffusion-weighted and conventional imaging for the follow-up of neuroendocrine tumors. Endocrine . 2020;67(1): 243-251.
37. Rossi RE, Elvevi A, Gallo C, Palermo A, Invernizzi P, Massironi S. Endoscopic techniques for diagnosis and treatment of gastroentero-pancreatic neuroendocrine neoplasms: where we are. World J Gastroenterol . 2022;28(26):3258-3273.
38. Johnbeck CB, Knigge U, Kj æ r A. PET tracers for somatostatin receptor imaging of neuroendocrine tumors: current status and review of the literature. Future Oncol . 2014;10(14):2259-2277.
39. Johnbeck CB, Knigge U, Loft A, et al. Head-to-head comparison of 64Cu-DOTATATE and 68Ga-DOTATOC PET/CT: a prospective study of 59 patients with neuroendocrine tumors. J Nucl Med . 2017; 58(3):451-457.

40. Binderup T, Knigge U, Johnbeck CB, et al. 18F-FDG PET is superior to WHO grading as a prognostic tool in neuroendocrine neoplasms and useful in guiding PRRT: a prospective 10-year follow-up study. J Nucl Med . 2021;62(6):808-815.
41. Ambrosini V, Tomassetti P, Castellucci P, et al. Comparison between 68Ga-DOTA-NOC and 18F-DOPA PET for the detection of gastroentero-pancreatic and lung neuro-endocrine tumours. Eur J Nucl Med Mol Imaging . 2008;35(8):1431-1438.
42. Putzer D, Gabriel M, Kendler D, et al. Comparison of (68)Ga-DOTATyr(3)-octreotide and (18)F-fluoro-L-dihydroxyphenylalanine positron emission tomography in neuroendocrine tumor patients. Q J Nucl Med Mol Imaging . 2010;54(1):68-75.
43. Ouvrard E, Mestier LD, Boursier C, et al. 18F-DOPA PET/CT at the forefront of initial or presurgical evaluation of small-intestine neuroendocrine tumors. J Nucl Med . 2022;63(12):1865-1870.
44. Kaçmaz E, Chen JW, Tanis PJ, Nieveen van Dijkum EJM, Engelsman AF. Postoperative morbidity and mortality after surgical resection of small bowel neuroendocrine neoplasms: a systematic review and meta-analysis. J Neuroendocrinol . 2021;33(8):e13008.
45. Ohrvall U, Eriksson B, Juhlin C, et al. Method for dissection of mesenteric metastases in mid-gut carcinoid tumors. World J Surg . 2000; 24(11):1402-1408.
46. Bertani E, Zugni F, Radice D, et al. Predicting resectability of primary tumor and mesenteric lymph-node masses in patients with smallintestine neuroendocrine tumors. Updates Surg . 2022;74:16971704.
47. Bartsch DK, Windel S, Kanngießer V, et al. Vessel-sparing lymphadenectomy should be performed in small intestine neuroendocrine neoplasms. Cancers (Basel) . 2022;14(15):3610.
48. Zaidi MY, Lopez-Aguiar AG, Dillhoff M, et al. Prognostic role of lymph node positivity and number of lymph nodes needed for accurately staging small-bowel neuroendocrine tumors. JAMA Surg . 2019;154(2):134-140.
49. Li MX, Lopez-Aguiar AG, Poultsides G, et al. Surgical treatment of neuroendocrine tumors of the terminal ileum or cecum: ileocecectomy versus right hemicolectomy. J Gastrointest Surg . 2022;26(6): 1266-1274.
50. Evers M, Rinke A, Rütz J, Ramaswamy A, Maurer E, Bartsch DK. Prognostic factors in curative resected locoregional small intestine neuroendocrine neoplasms. World J Surg . 2021;45(4):1109-1117.
51. Wong W, Perez Holguin RA, Olecki EJ, et al. Predictors and outcomes of minimally invasive surgery for small bowel neuroendocrine tumors: minimally invasive surgery for SBNETs. J Gastrointest Surg . 2022;26(6):1252-1265.
52. Ingaldi C, Alberici L, Ricci C, et al. Prophylactic cholecystectomy is not mandatory in patients candidate to the resection for small intestine neuroendocrine neoplasms: a propensity score-matched and cost-minimization analysis. Updates Surg . 2022;74(3):991-998.
53. Barrett JR, Rendell V, Pokrzywa C, et al. Adjuvant therapy following resection of gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors provides no recurrence or survival benefit. J Surg Oncol . 2020;121(7): 1067-1073.
54. Rinke A, Müller HH, Schade-Brittinger C, et al. Placebo-controlled, double-blind, prospective, randomized study on the effect of octreotide LAR in the control of tumor growth in patients with metastatic neuroendocrine midgut tumors: a report from the PROMID study group. J Clin Oncol . 2009;27(28):4656-4663.
55. Caplin ME, Pavel M, /C19 Cwik ł a JB, et al. Lanreotide in metastatic enteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. N Engl J Med . 2014;371(3): 224-233.
56. Papantoniou D, Grönberg M, Thiis-Evensen E, et al. Treatment efficacy in a metastatic small intestinal neuroendocrine tumour grade 2 cohort. Endocr Relat Cancer . 2023;30(3):e220316.
57. Rinke A, Wittenberg M, Schade-Brittinger C, et al. Placebo-controlled, double-blind, prospective, randomized study on the effect of

octreotide LAR in the control of tumor growth in patients with metastatic neuroendocrine midgut tumors (PROMID): results of longterm survival. Neuroendocrinology . 2017;104(1):26-32.

58. Jimenez-Fonseca P, Carmona-Bayonas A, Lamarca A, et al. External validity of somatostatin analogs trials in advanced neuroendocrine neoplasms: the GETNE-TRASGU study. Neuroendocrinology . 2022; 112(1):88-100.
59. Rinke A, Neary MP, Eriksson J, et al. Health-related quality of life for long-acting octreotide versus placebo in patients with metastatic midgut neuroendocrine tumors in the phase 3 PROMID trial. Neuroendocrinology . 2019;109(2):141-151.
60. Caplin ME, Pavel M, Phan AT, et al. Lanreotide autogel/depot in advanced enteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumours: final results of the CLARINET open-label extension study. Endocrine . 2021;71(2): 502-513.
61. Modlin IM, Pavel M, Kidd M, Gustafsson BI. Review article: somatostatin analogues in the treatment of gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine (carcinoid) tumours. Aliment Pharmacol Ther . 2010;31(2): 169-188.
62. Oberg K. Interferon in the management of neuroendocrine GEPtumors: a review. Digestion . 2000;62(1):92-97.
63. Arnold R, Rinke A, Klose KJ, et al. Octreotide versus octreotide plus interferon-alpha in endocrine gastroenteropancreatic tumors: a randomized trial. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol . 2005; 3(8):761-771.
64. Yao JC, Guthrie KA, Moran C, et al. Phase III prospective randomized comparison trial of depot octreotide plus interferon alfa-2b versus depot octreotide plus bevacizumab in patients with advanced carcinoid tumors: SWOG S0518. J Clin Oncol . 2017; 35(15):1695-1703.
65. Yao JC, Fazio N, Singh S, et al. Everolimus for the treatment of advanced, non-functional neuroendocrine tumours of the lung or gastrointestinal tract (RADIANT-4): a randomised, placebocontrolled, phase 3 study. Lancet . 2016;387(10022):968-977.
66. Singh S, Carnaghi C, Buzzoni R, et al. Everolimus in neuroendocrine tumors of the gastrointestinal tract and unknown primary. Neuroendocrinology . 2018;106(3):211-220.
67. Singh S, Halperin DM, Myrehaug S, et al. [177Lu]Lu-DOTA-TATE in newly diagnosed patients with advanced grade 2 and grade 3, welldifferentiated gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors: primary analysis of the phase 3 randomized NETTER-2 study. J Clin Oncol . 2024;42(3):LBA588.
68. Lamarca A, Elliott E, Barriuso J, et al. Chemotherapy for advanced non-pancreatic well-differentiated neuroendocrine tumours of the gastrointestinal tract, a systematic review and meta-analysis: a lost cause? Cancer Treat Rev . 2016;44:26-41.
69. Mitry E, Walter T, Baudin E, et al. Bevacizumab plus capecitabine in patients with progressive advanced well-differentiated neuroendocrine tumors of the gastro-intestinal (GI-NETs) tract (BETTER trial) -a phase II non-randomised trial. Eur J Cancer . 2014;50(18):31073115.
70. Apostolidis L, Dal Buono A, Merola E, et al. Multicenter analysis of treatment outcomes for systemic therapy in well differentiated grade 3 neuroendocrine tumors (NET G3). Cancers (Basel) . 2021; 13(8):1936.
71. de Mestier L, Lamarca A, Hernando J, et al. Treatment outcomes of advanced digestive well-differentiated grade 3 NETs. Endocr Relat Cancer . 2021;28(8):549-561.
72. Carlsen EA, Fazio N, Granberg D, et al. Peptide receptor radionuclide therapy in gastroenteropancreatic NEN G3: a multicenter cohort study. Endocr Relat Cancer . 2019;26(2):227-239.
73. Lamarca A, Cives M, de Mestier L, et al. Advanced small-bowel welldifferentiated neuroendocrine tumours: an international survey of practice on 3rd-line treatment. World J Gastroenterol . 2021;27(10): 976-989.

74. Strosberg J, El-Haddad G, Wolin E, et al. Phase 3 trial of 177LuDotatate for midgut neuroendocrine tumors. N Engl J Med . 2017; 376(2):125-135.
75. Strosberg J, Wolin E, Chasen B, et al. Health-related quality of life in patients with progressive midgut neuroendocrine tumors treated with 177Lu-Dotatate in the phase III NETTER-1 trial. J Clin Oncol . 2018;36(25):2578-2584.
76. Strosberg JR, Caplin ME, Kunz PL, et al. 177Lu-Dotatate plus longacting octreotide versus high-dose long-acting octreotide in patients with midgut neuroendocrine tumours (NETTER-1): final overall survival and long-term safety results from an open-label, randomised, controlled, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol . 2021;22(12):1752-1763.
77. van der Zwan WA, Brabander T, Kam BLR, et al. Salvage peptide receptor radionuclide therapy with [177Lu-DOTA,Tyr3]octreotate in patients with bronchial and gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumours. Eur J Nucl Med Mol Imaging . 2019;46(3):704-717.
78. Strosberg J, Leeuwenkamp O, Siddiqui MK. Peptide receptor radiotherapy re-treatment in patients with progressive neuroendocrine tumors: a systematic review and meta-analysis. Cancer Treat Rev . 2021;93:102141.
79. Diamantopoulos LN, Laskaratos FM, Kalligeros M, et al. Antiproliferative effect of above-label doses of somatostatin analogs for the management of gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. Neuroendocrinology . 2021;111(7):650-659.
80. Lamberti G, Faggiano A, Brighi N, et al. Nonconventional doses of somatostatin analogs in patients with progressing well-differentiated neuroendocrine tumor. J Clin Endocrinol Metab . 2020;105(1): 194-200.
81. Pavel M, /C19 Cwik ł a JB, Lombard-Bohas C, et al. Efficacy and safety of high-dose lanreotide autogel in patients with progressive pancreatic or midgut neuroendocrine tumours: CLARINET FORTE phase 2 study results. Eur J Cancer . 2021;157:403-414.
82. Kulke MH, Lenz HJ, Meropol NJ, et al. Activity of sunitinib in patients with advanced neuroendocrine tumors. J Clin Oncol . 2008; 26(20):3403-3410.
83. Grillo F, Florio T, Ferraù F, et al. Emerging multitarget tyrosine kinase inhibitors in the treatment of neuroendocrine neoplasms. Endocr Relat Cancer . 2018;25(9):R453-R466.
84. Capdevila J, Fazio N, Lopez C, et al. Lenvatinib in patients with advanced grade 1/2 pancreatic and gastrointestinal neuroendocrine tumors: results of the phase II TALENT trial (GETNE1509). J Clin Oncol . 2021;39(20):2304-2312.
85. Phan AT, Halperin DM, Chan JA, et al. Pazopanib and depot octreotide in advanced, well-differentiated neuroendocrine tumours: a multicentre, single-group, phase 2 study. Lancet Oncol . 2015;16(6): 695-703.
86. Strosberg JR, Cives M, Hwang J, et al. A phase II study of axitinib in advanced neuroendocrine tumors. Endocr Relat Cancer . 2016;23(5): 411-418.
87. Xu J, Shen L, Zhou Z, et al. Surufatinib in advanced extrapancreatic neuroendocrine tumours (SANET-ep): a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 3 study. Lancet Oncol . 2020;21(11):15001512.
88. Garcia-Carbonero R, Benavent M, Jiménez Fonseca P, et al. The AXINET trial (GETNE1107): Axitinib plus octreotide LAR improves PFS by blinded central radiological assessment vs placebo plus octreotide LAR in G1-2 extrapancreatic NETs. Ann Oncol . 2021;32(5):S906S920.
89. Chan J et al. Alliance A021602: Phase III, double-blinded study of cabozantinib versus placebo for advanced neuroendocrine tumors (NET) after progression on prior therapy (CABINET). 2023. https:// oncologypro.esmo.org/meeting-resources/esmo-congress/alliancea021602-phase-iii-double-blinded-study-of-cabozantinib-versusplacebo-for-advanced-neuroendocrine-tumors-net-after-progressionon-prio.
90. Elias D, Lasser P, Ducreux M, et al. Liver resection (and associated extrahepatic resections) for metastatic well-differentiated endocrine tumors: a 15-year single center prospective study. Surgery . 2003; 133(4):375-382.
91. Mayo SC, de Jong MC, Pulitano C, et al. Surgical management of hepatic neuroendocrine tumor metastasis: results from an international multi-institutional analysis. Ann Surg Oncol . 2010;17(12):31293136.
92. Frilling A, Modlin IM, Kidd M, et al. Recommendations for management of patients with neuroendocrine liver metastases. Lancet Oncol . 2014;15(1):e8-e21.
93. Shi C, Gonzalez RS, Zhao Z, et al. Liver metastases of small intestine neuroendocrine tumors: Ki-67 heterogeneity and World Health Organization grade discordance with primary tumors. Am J Clin Pathol . 2015;143(3):398-404.
94. Yang TX, Chua TC, Morris DL. Radioembolization and chemoembolization for unresectable neuroendocrine liver metastases -a systematic review. Surg Oncol . 2012;21(4):299-308.
95. Kanabar R, Barriuso J, McNamara MG, et al. Liver embolisation for patients with neuroendocrine neoplasms: systematic review. Neuroendocrinology . 2021;111(4):354-369.
96. de Mestier L, Zappa M, Hentic O, Vilgrain V, Ruszniewski P. Liver transarterial embolizations in metastatic neuroendocrine tumors. Rev Endocr Metab Disord . 2017;18(4):459-471.
97. Al-Toubah T, Partelli S, Cives M, et al. Local treatment for focal progression in metastatic neuroendocrine tumors. Endocr Relat Cancer . 2019;26(4):405-409.
98. Egger ME, Armstrong E, Martin RC, et al. Transarterial chemoembolization vs radioembolization for neuroendocrine liver metastases: a multi-institutional analysis. J Am Coll Surg . 2020; 230(4):363-370.
99. Soulen M, White S, Fidelman N, et al. Randomized embolization trial for neuroendocrine tumors (RETNET): first safety report. J Vascul Interven Radiol . 2019;30(3):S49-S50.
100. van den Heede K, Chidambaram S, van Slycke S, et al. Effect of primary tumour resection without curative intent in patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tumours of the small intestine and right colon: meta-analysis. Br J Surg . 2022;109(2):191-199.
101. Polcz M, Schlegel C, Edwards GC, et al. Primary tumor resection offers survival benefit in patients with metastatic midgut neuroendocrine tumors. Ann Surg Oncol . 2020;27(8):2795-2803.
102. Bennett S, Coburn N, Law C, et al. Upfront small bowel resection for small bowel neuroendocrine tumors with synchronous metastases: a propensity-score matched comparative population-based analysis. Ann Surg . 2020;276:e450-e458.
103. Daskalakis K, Karakatsanis A, Hessman O, et al. Association of a prophylactic surgical approach to stage IV small intestinal neuroendocrine tumors with survival. JAMA Oncol . 2018;4(2):183-189.
104. Yan H, Yin L, Han H, Jin Y, Liu Z. Relationship between primary tumor resection for metastatic small intestine neuroendocrine tumors and survival: a propensity score-matched analysis. J Invest Surg . 2022;35(6):1239-1247.
105. Kaemmerer D, Twrznik M, Kulkarni HR, et al. Prior resection of the primary tumor prolongs survival after peptide receptor radionuclide therapy of advanced neuroendocrine neoplasms. Ann Surg . 2021; 274(1):e45-e53.
106. Maurer E, Heinzel-Gutenbrunner M, Rinke A, et al. Relevant prognostic factors in patients with stage IV small intestine neuroendocrine neoplasms. J Neuroendocrinol . 2022;34(1):e13076.
107. Wonn SM, Limbach KE, Pommier SJ, et al. Outcomes of cytoreductive operations for peritoneal carcinomatosis with or without liver cytoreduction in patients with small bowel neuroendocrine tumors. Surgery . 2021;169(1):168-174.
108. Hajjar R, Mercier F, Passot G, et al. Cytoreductive surgery with or without hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy for small bowel

neuroendocrine tumors with peritoneal metastasis. Eur J Surg Oncol . 2022;48(7):1626-1630.

109. Strosberg JR, Benson AB, Huynh L, et al. Clinical benefits of abovestandard dose of octreotide LAR in patients with neuroendocrine tumors for control of carcinoid syndrome symptoms: a multicenter retrospective chart review study. Oncologist . 2014;19(9):930-936.
110. Al-Efraij K, Aljama MA, Kennecke HF. Association of dose escalation of octreotide long-acting release on clinical symptoms and tumor markers and response among patients with neuroendocrine tumors. Cancer Med . 2015;4(6):864-870.
111. Wolin EM, Jarzab B, Eriksson B, et al. Phase III study of pasireotide long-acting release in patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tumors and carcinoid symptoms refractory to available somatostatin analogues. Drug des Devel Ther . 2015;9:5075-5086.
112. Vinik AI, Wolin EM, Liyanage N, Gomez-Panzani E, Fisher GA, ELECT Study Group. Evaluation of LANREOTIDE depot/AUTOGEL efficacy and safety AS a carcinoid syndrome treatment (elect): a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Endocr Pract . 2016; 22(9):1068-1080.
113. Kulke MH, Hörsch D, Caplin ME, et al. Telotristat ethyl, a tryptophan hydroxylase inhibitor for the treatment of carcinoid syndrome. J Clin Oncol . 2017;35(1):14-23.
114. Pavel M, Gross DJ, Benavent M, et al. Telotristat ethyl in carcinoid syndrome: safety and efficacy in the TELECAST phase 3 trial. Endocr Relat Cancer . 2018;25(3):309-322.
115. Kölby L, Persson G, Franzén S, Ahrén B. Randomized clinical trial of the effect of interferon alpha on survival in patients with disseminated midgut carcinoid tumours. Br J Surg . 2003;90(6):687-693.
116. Pavel ME, Baum U, Hahn EG, Schuppan D, Lohmann T. Efficacy and tolerability of pegylated IFN-alpha in patients with neuroendocrine gastroenteropancreatic carcinomas. J Interferon Cytokine Res . 2006; 26(1):8-13.
117. Zandee WT, Brabander T, Bla ˇ zevi /C19 c A, et al. Peptide receptor radionuclide therapy with 177Lu-DOTATATE for symptomatic control of refractory carcinoid syndrome. J Clin Endocrinol Metab . 2021;106(9): e3665-e3672.
118. Pavel ME, Hainsworth JD, Baudin E, et al. Everolimus plus octreotide long-acting repeatable for the treatment of advanced neuroendocrine tumours associated with carcinoid syndrome (RADIANT-2): a randomised, placebo-controlled, phase 3 study. Lancet . 2011; 378(9808):2005-2012.
119. Bainbridge HE, Larbi E, Middleton G. Symptomatic control of neuroendocrine tumours with everolimus. Horm Cancer . 2015;6(5 -6): 254-259.
120. Lamarca A, Frizziero M, Barriuso J, et al. Molecular profiling of welldifferentiated neuroendocrine Tumours: the role of ctDNA in realworld practice. Cancers (Basel) . 2022;14(4):1017.
121. Raymond E, Dahan L, Raoul JL, et al. Sunitinib malate for the treatment of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. N Engl J Med . 2011; 364(6):501-513.
122. Hamilton E et al. Safety and tolerability of Surufatinib in Western patients with solid tumors. Ann Oncol . 2019;30(5):v564-v573.
123. A phase II/III randomized double-blind study of octreotide acetate LAR with axitinib versus octreotide acetate LAR with placebo in patients with advanced G1-G2 NETs of non-pancreatic origin

(AXINET trial-GETNE-1107). J Clin Oncol . 2021;360. doi:10.1200/ JCO.2021.39.3\_suppl.360

124. Bergsland EK, Mahoney MR, Asmis TR, et al. Prospective randomized phase II trial of pazopanib versus placebo in patients with progressive carcinoid tumors (CARC) (Alliance A021202). J Clin Oncol . 2019;37(15):4005.
125. Chan JA, Faris JE, Murphy JE, et al. Phase II trial of cabozantinib in patients with carcinoid and pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (pNET). J Clin Oncol . 2017;35:228.
126. Lamarca A, Nonaka D, Breitwieser W, et al. PD-L1 expression and presence of TILs in small intestinal neuroendocrine tumours. Oncotarget . 2018;9(19):14922-14938.
127. Yao JC, Strosberg J, Fazio N, et al. Spartalizumab in metastatic, well/poorly-differentiated neuroendocrine neoplasms. Endocr Relat Cancer . 2021. doi: 10.1530/ERC-20-0382
128. Strosberg J, Mizuno N, Doi T, et al. Efficacy and safety of pembrolizumab in previously treated advanced neuroendocrine tumors: results from the phase II KEYNOTE-158 study. Clin Cancer Res . 2020;26(9):2124-2130.
129. Mehnert JM, Rugo HS, O'Neil BH, et al. Pembrolizumab for patients with PD-L1 -positive advanced carcinoid or pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors: results from the KEYNOTE-028 study. Ann Oncol . 2017;28:v142.
130. Capdevila et al. A multi-cohort phase II study of durvalumab plus tremelimumab for the treatment of patients (pts) with advanced neuroendocrine neoplasms (NENs) of gastroenteropancreatic or lung origin: the DUNE trial (GETNE 1601). Ann Oncol . 2020;31(4): S711-S724.
131. Halperin DM, Liu S, Dasari A, et al. A phase II trial of atezolizumab and bevacizumab in patients with advanced, progressive neuroendocrine tumors (NETs). J Clin Oncol . 2020;38(4):619.
132. Mandriani B, Pellè E, Mannavola F, et al. Development of antisomatostatin receptors CAR T cells for treatment of neuroendocrine tumors. J Immunother Cancer . 2022;10(6):e004854.
133. Singh S, Chan DL, Moody L, et al. Recurrence in resected Gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. JAMA Oncol . 2018;4(4): 583-585.
134. Lamarca A, Clouston H, Barriuso J, et al. Follow-up recommendations after curative resection of well-differentiated neuroendocrine Tumours: review of current evidence and clinical practice. J Clin Med . 2019;8(10):1630.
135. Knigge U, Capdevila J, Bartsch DK, et al. ENETS consensus recommendations for the standards of care in neuroendocrine neoplasms: follow-up and documentation. Neuroendocrinology . 2017;105(3): 310-319.

How to cite this article: Lamarca A, Bartsch DK, Caplin M, et al. European Neuroendocrine Tumor Society (ENETS) 2024 guidance paper for the management of well-differentiated small intestine neuroendocrine tumours. J Neuroendocrinol . 2024;36(9):e13423. doi:10.1111/jne.13423

## APPENDIX A

FIGURE A1 Grade of recommendations. Grading according to published research. ( ' A ' = Strong; ' B ' = Moderate; ' C ' = Low; ' D ' = Very low).

<!-- image -->
--- END FULL CONTENT ---

===== GUIDELINE 2: Gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine neoplasms: ESMO Clinical Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up [y] =====
Relevance: ESMO Clinical Practice Guidelines are always included as the primary reference for gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine neoplasms management.
--- BEGIN FULL CONTENT ---
SPECIAL ARTICLE

# Gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine neoplasms: ESMO Clinical Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up [y]


M. Pavel [1], K. Öberg [2], M. Falconi [3], E. P. Krenning [4], A. Sundin [5], A. Perren [6] & A. Berruti [7], on behalf of the ESMO Guidelines
Committee [*]


1Department of Medicine 1, University Hospital Erlangen, Erlangen, Germany; 2Department of Endocrine Oncology, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden; 3Department

- f Surgery, IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, Italy; [4] Cyclotron Rotterdam BV, Erasmus Medical Centre, Rotterdam, The Netherlands; [5] Department of
Surgical Sciences, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden; [6] Institute of Pathology, University of Bern, Bern, Switzerland; [7] Department of Medical and Surgical Specialties,
Radiological Sciences and Public Health, Medical Oncology Unit, University of Brescia, ASST Spedali Civili, Brescia, Italy


Available online 6 April 2020


Key words: Clinical Practice Guidelines, diagnosis, gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine neoplasms, GEP-NENs,
GEP-NETs, Pan-NENs, SI-NETs, treatment and follow-up



INTRODUCTION


Neuroendocrine neoplasms (NENs) arise from the diffuse
neuroendocrine cell system and may occur at many
different disease sites. Most frequently, these neoplasms

- ccur in the digestive system, followed by the lung. The
term NEN encompasses well-differentiated neuroendocrine
tumours (NETs) and poorly differentiated neuroendocrine
carcinomas (NECs). NECs represent only 10%e20% of all
NENs. The main focus of these guidelines is on sporadic
small intestinal (SI)-NENs and pancreatic NENs (Pan-NENs)
since these are the most prevalent NENs at advanced
disease stages. In general, the management of other
gastrointestinal NENs follows the same principles as in SI- or
Pan-NENs taking into consideration key features of NENs
such as proliferative activity, somatostatin receptor (SSTR)
expression, tumour growth rate and extent of the disease.


Recommendation


 - Diagnostic and therapeutic decision making should be
based on key features of NENs such as proliferative activity, SSTR expression, tumour growth rate and extent of
the disease [IV, A].


INCIDENCE AND EPIDEMIOLOGY


Gastroenteropancreatic NENs (GEP-NENs) constitute a
heterogeneous group of malignancies with a neuronal


*Correspondence to: ESMO Guidelines Committee, ESMO Head Office, Via
Ginevra 4, CH-6900 Lugano, Switzerland.
[E-mail: clinicalguidelines@esmo.org (ESMO Guidelines Committee).](mailto:clinicalguidelines@esmo.org)


y Approved by the ESMO Guidelines Committee: August 2007, last update
March 2020. This publication supersedes the previously published versiondAnn
Oncol. 2012;23(suppl 7):vii124evii130.
0923-7534/© 2020 European Society for Medical Oncology. Published by
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

phenotype and the capacity to secrete amines and
hormones. They share similarities with neuroendocrine cells

- f the embryological gut. The incidence of GEP-NENs has
increased more than six-fold between 1997 and 2012. [1] The

incidence of localised and regional NENs has increased
more than that of NENs with distant metastasis. [1] The

incidence of gastroenteropancreatic NETs (GEP-NETs) in the
USA based on an update of the Surveillance, Epidemiology
and End Results (SEER) database is estimated to be 3.56/
100 000/year. The 20-year limited-duration prevalence has
recently been calculated to 48/100 000. [1] For incidences of
individual organs, see supplementary Table S1, available at
Annals of Oncology online. In Europe, the incidence of

e
GEP-NETs has also increased, and ranges between 1.33
2.33/100 000 population; however, data arise from the
national and regional registries and are heterogeneous and
mostly retrospective. [2][e][4]

Men are affected slightly more frequently than women
and show an adverse outcome. Most NENs are well
differentiated NETs and occur sporadically. GEP-NETs of
the pancreas, duodenum, stomach and, more rarely, NETs of
the thymus and lung may also arise in the setting of the
multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) syndrome.
Pancreatic NETs (Pan-NETs) are also associated with von
Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease, tuberous sclerosis (TSC) and
neurofibromatosis. In these hereditary settings, NETs are
multifocal, and the onset of disease is one to two decades
earlier than in sporadic tumours. Furthermore, they are

~~of~~ ten early stage at the time of diagnosis. The frequency of
a hereditary background (MEN1, VHL syndromes) was
reported as 5%. [5] Recently, whole genomic sequencing
revealed 17% of apparently sporadic Pan-NETs carried
germline mutations also including DNA repair genes (e.g.
MUTYH, CHEK2, BRCA2). [6]

844 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304) Volume 31 - Issue 7 - 2020




Recommendations

 - While most NENs are sporadic, a hereditary background
should be considered, particularly in Pan-NETs.

 - Genetic testing should be carried out in patients with
multiple endocrine neoplasias (hyperparathyroidism
and/or pituitary tumours), a family history of NENs or
associated diseases and features suspicious of a hereditary disease, as well as in young patients (<40 years of
age) with gastrinoma [IV, A].

DIAGNOSIS AND PATHOLOGY/MOLECULAR BIOLOGY

Histological diagnosis is mandatory in all patients and can
be carried out on resection specimens or core biopsies in
advanced disease. The diagnosis of a NEN is suspected on
hematoxylin eosin (HE)-stained tissue by histomorphological growth pattern and cytology. The neuroendocrine
phenotype is proven by the immunohistochemical detection of the neuroendocrine markers synaptophysin and/or
chromogranin A (CgA) [III, A]. Absence of both markers is
very exceptional in a subset of poorly differentiated NECs,
but in this case, other tumour entities must be carefully
excluded. Neuron-specific enolase (NSE) and CD56 markers
are often positive in GEP-NENs, but are not recommended
due to their lack of specificity. [7] GEP-NENs should be
classified based on morphology and proliferation (and,
rarely, mutation spectrum) into well-differentiated NETs (G1
to G3) and poorly-differentiated NECs (always G3) (Table 1).
These two classes of NENs reflect biologically and genetically two different diseases. When showing a high proliferation rate (>20%), there are clear prognostic differences
between the two classes. Therefore, the World Health
Organization (WHO) 2017 and 2019 classifications split the
heterogeneous G3 GEP-NENs into well-differentiated NET
G3 and poorly-differentiated NEC G3. [8][,][9] Clinical history,
histomorphology and genetics (DAXX/ATRX/MEN1 mutation
in Pan-NET G3, p53 mutation or RB loss in NEC G3) help in
separating the groups (Table 2). [8] The separation of
well-differentiated NET G3 from NEC, which had been valid
exclusively for Pan-NENs, has now been adopted for

GoR, grade of recommendation; IHC, immunohistochemistry; LoE, level of evidence;
MGMT, O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase; NEC, neuroendocrine carcinoma;
NEN, neuroendocrine neoplasm; NET, neuroendocrine tumour; Pan-NET, pancreatic
neuroendocrine tumour; P53, tumour protein; pRb, retinoblastoma protein; SSTR,
somatostatin receptor; WHO, World Health Organization.
Adapted from Kloeppel [8] with permission.

gastrointestinal (GI) NENs in an update of the WHO classification for GI NENs. [9] Specific staining for peptide hormones
such as gastrin, insulin, glucagon and amines (serotonin)
can be applied to confirm the source of a clinical symptomatology, but there is no complete agreement between
immunohistochemistry (IHC) and symptomatology, as there
can be synthesis of bioactive compounds without secretion

[non-functioning (NF)-NENs].
IHC for Ki-67 (MIB1) is mandatory to grade the NENs
according to the WHO 2017 and 2019 classifications. Both
the number of mitotic figures per 2 mm [2] as well as the Ki-67
index based on assessment of 2000 cells should be reported
(Table 1). In the case of a discordant grade between these
two methods, the higher grade must be attributed. [8] Other
biomarkers are optional, such as SSTR-2 staining, in
case functional imaging is not available, or DAXX/ATRX and
p53/RB mutations for discrimination of NET G3 and NEC G3
(Table 2). [8] For appropriate pathological diagnosis,
morphology, grading and immunohistochemical staining for
CgA and synaptophysin should be reported [III, A].
NETs arising at different anatomical sites of the digestive
system represent tumour entities that differ in their biology
and clinical presentation (Table 3). Rarely, Pan-NETs may
secrete multiple hormones or NETs may transition from NF
to functional status. [10]

Recommendation

 - For appropriate pathological diagnosis, morphology,
grading and immunohistochemical staining for CgA and
synaptophysin should be reported. SSTR staining or specific staining for peptide hormones and amines as well as
use of molecular markers is optional and dependent on
clinical requirements [III, A].

STAGING AND RISK ASSESSMENT

Disease stage and tumour grade are the two major independent prognostic parameters and should always be assessed

[III, A]. Since the WHO 2010 classification, NENs are graded

HPF, high-power field; MiNEN, mixed neuroendocrine/nonendocrine neoplasm; NEC,
neuroendocrine carcinoma; NEN, neuroendocrine neoplasm; NET, neuroendocrine
tumour; WHO, World Health Organization.
a 10 HPF ¼ 2 mm2, at least 40 fields (at �40 magnification) evaluated in areas of
highest mitotic density.
b MIB1 antibody; percentage of 500e2000 tumour cells in areas of highest nuclear
labelling.

Volume 31 - Issue 7 - 2020 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304) 845


ACTH, adrenocorticotropic hormone; CgA, chromogranin A; CRH, corticotropinreleasing hormone; CS, carcinoid syndrome; GEP-NET, gastroenteropancreatic
neuroendocrine tumour; GH, growth hormone; GHRH, growth hormone-releasing
hormone; GI-NET, gastrointestinal neuroendocrine tumour; NET, neuroendocrine
tumour; NF, non-functioning; Pan-NET, pancreatic neuroendocrine tumour; PP,
pancreatic polypeptide; PTHrP, parathyroid hormone-related peptide; VIP, vasoactive
intestinal peptide; WDHA syndrome, watery diarrhoea, hypokalaemia, achlorhydria.
a CgA is secreted by functioning and NF tumours.
b Calcitonin-secreting tumours may present as NF tumours.
c PP can also be elevated in GI-NETs.

according to Ki-67 index and mitotic count (Table 1). For
staging, the tumour, node and metastasis (TNM) staging system proposed by the European Neuroendocrine Tumour Society (ENETS) was recently widely adopted by the eighth
edition of the Union for International Cancer Control/American Joint Committee on Cancer (UICC/AJCC) staging system [11]

for various types of GEP-NETs. For all NECs, the staging system

- f adenocarcinomas must be applied. [11] Furthermore, the
primary tumour site has an impact on the prognosis in
advanced disease. Patients with Pan-NETs or colorectal NETs

have a less favourable prognosis than patients with small intestinal NETs (SI-NETs) (see supplementary Tables S1eS3,
available at Annals of Oncology online).
Computed tomography (CT) constitutes the basic
radiological method for NET imaging because of its wide
availability, standardised reproducible technique and generally
high diagnostic yield. [12] Small metastatic lymph nodes (<1 cm)
mayescape detection by CT. For bone metastases, CTsensitivity

e
is poor at 61% (range 46% 80%). Small peritoneal metastases
may be difficult to visualise. [13] The sensitivity of CT to detect
NETs is 61%e93% and the specificity is 71%e100%. [12][,][14][,][15] The

e
detection rate for liver metastases (LMs) is 79% (73%

94%), [16][,][17] and for extra-abdominal soft tissue metastases, the

e
sensitivity is 70% (60% 100%) and specificity 96% (range
87%e100%). [18] Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is advantageous for examination of the liver and the pancreas and is
usually preferred in the initial staging and for the preoperative
imaging work-up [III, A]. Currently, diffusion-weighted
imaging (DWI) with MRI (DW-MRI), which is based on the
restricted movement of water in highly cellular tissues such as
in tumours, is routinely applied and facilitates lesion detec
e
tion. The MRI sensitivity to detect Pan NETs is 79% (54%

e
100%), with fairly similar detection rates of 76% (61%

e
95%), [19][e][21] and for LMs, the sensitivity is 75% (range 70%
80%) with near maximum specificity of 98%. The mean

e
sensitivity of MRI for detection of LMs is 91% (range 82%
98%) as compared with CT with a mean sensitivity of 83%

e
(range 75% 98%). [22][e][26] MRI is also superior to CT for imaging

- f the bones and the brain. MRI may, however, miss small lung
metastases, and CT is preferred for imaging of the lungs as it

- ffers a better spatial resolution. [12] Contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) is an excellent method to characterise liver lesions that remain equivocal on CT/MRI. When therapy
monitoring is mainly conducted by CT, a three-phase CT
should be carried out. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) is the
current optimal imaging method to diagnose small Pan-NETs

e
with 86% (range 82% 93%) sensitivity and 92% (range
86%e95%) specificity [27] and allows also for biopsy, using fine
needle aspiration for cytology or, better yet, a cutting needle
for histopathological diagnosis. Intraoperative ultrasound
(US) facilitates lesion detection/localisation in the pancreas
and liver and is mandatory before pancreatic resection in
MEN1 syndrome patients.
Imaging by [68] Ga/ [64] Cu-DOTA-somatostatin analogue (SSA)
positron emission tomography (PET) in combination with CT
(PET-CT) provides high sensitivity for imaging of most types of
NET lesions and should be part of the tumour staging, pre
- perative imaging and restaging [IV, A]. [12] SSTR scintigraphy
(SRS) should be carried out when PET-CT is not available but is
considerably less sensitive [IV, B]. SRS should include crosssectional imaging by single photon emission CT (SPECT)
together with CT (SPECT-CT). The strength of a PET-CT is a
higher detection rate of lymph node, bone and peritoneal
lesions as well as unknown primary tumours.
The sensitivity to detect NET disease by [68] Ga-DOTA-SSA
e
PET-CT is 92% (range 64% 100%) and specificity 95% (range
83%e100%). [28] The sensitivity to detect pancreatic and
duodenal NETs is 92% and the specificity 83%, [28] and the
corresponding values for bone metastases are 97%e100%
and 92%e100%. [28] The use of PET with [ [18] F]fluoro-deoxyglucose (FDG) is optional in NENs. FDG is the tracer of choice
for G3 and high G2 NETs, which generally have higher glucose
metabolism and less SSTR expression than the low-grade
NETs, for which the situation is usually the reverse. [29] Combined SSTR imaging and FDG-PET-CT has been shown to be
complementary for lesion detection. Findings of FDGpositive NETs at PET-CT indicate worse prognosis. [29][e][31]

The author panel believes that optimal diagnostic and
prognostic information can be achieved by submitting all
NET G2/G3 patients to PET-CT with both FDG and [68] Ga


846 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304) Volume 31 - Issue 7 - 2020



DOTA-SSA (DOTATOC/DOTATATE/DOTANOC); however, this
procedure needs validation and cannot be generally recommended, but should rather be adopted on an individual
basis, balancing the potential advantages with the
increasing costs [IV, C].

Recommendations

 - Disease stage by TNM classification and tumour grade
are the two major independent prognostic parameters
and should always be assessed [III, A].

 - Whole-body SSTR imaging should be part of the tumour
staging, preoperative imaging and restaging [IV, A].

B [68] Ga/ [64] Cu-SSTR-PET-CT is recommended but, if not
available, SRS can be used, although it is considerably
less sensitive [IV, B].

B SRS should include cross-sectional imaging by SPECT.

 - MRI should be preferred compared with CT for the
detection of liver, pancreas, brain and bone lesions,
while CT is preferred for imaging of the lungs [III, A].

 - The use of FDG-PET is optional in NENs and should be
adopted on an individual basis, balancing the potential
advantages with the costs [IV, C].

MANAGEMENT OF LOCAL/LOCOREGIONAL DISEASE

Surgery is the treatment of choice for local or locoregional
disease in NET G1 and G2. In functional NETs, clinical
symptoms should be managed before any intervention

[IV, A].

Pan-NETs

Preoperative evaluation of localised Pan-NETs should take
into account tumour size, the presence of unspecific
symptoms, functional activity, localisation of the lesion and
signs of local invasiveness (Figure 1).
Several studies demonstrated the safety of a watch-andwait strategy instead of surgery for asymptomatic NF-PanNETs �2 cm. [32][,][33] Nevertheless, the shortness of follow-up
and the absence of prospective studies still suggest a
cautious attitude towards this approach.
Currently, a conservative management of incidentally
discovered Pan-NETs �2 cm, consisting of a yearly highquality imaging, is suggested for elderly patients, in the
presence of important comorbidities and when a deep
localisation in the head of the pancreas allows only a
pancreaticoduodenectomy [IV, B]. [33] Surgery is recommended for young patients and in cases when signs of local
invasiveness (e.g. dilation of the main pancreatic duct and/

- r presence of jaundice and/or suspicion of nodal involvement) are present. In the latter condition, a standard
pancreatectomy with lymphadenectomy is mandatory,
whereas a parenchyma-sparing resection (e.g. enucleation

- r central pancreatectomy) should be routinely considered
when the indication for surgery is related to long life
expectancy. Moreover, surgery is mandatory in the presence of functioning Pan-NETs irrespective of tumour size.
Curative resection of localised Pan-NETs seems generally
associated with an improved long-term survival and a low
risk of recurrence. [34] A standard pancreatectomy (pancreatico-duodenectomy or distal pancreatectomy) with

Figure 1. Surgical approach in sporadic Pan-NETs.
ASA, American Society of Anesthesiologists; NET, neuroendocrine tumour; Pan-NET, pancreatic neuroendocrine tumour; RECIST, response evaluation criteria in solid

tumours.
a Slow tumour growth is defined as stable disease by RECIST criteria for >1 year. Surgery and/or liver-directed locoregional options may be combined and/or alternative

- ptions in patients with liver metastases, where applicable.
b To be considered only in exceptional cases (particularly in functioning tumours) in the absence of extrahepatic disease, histological confirmation of a well-differentiated
(G1eG2, Ki-67 <10%) NET, previous removal of primary tumour, metastatic diffusion <50% of the total liver volume, stable disease to therapies for at least 6 months
before transplant consideration and age <60 years.

Volume 31 - Issue 7 - 2020 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304) 847


regional lymphadenectomy [35] is recommended for Pan-NETs
>2 cm [IV, A]. Enucleation may represent an alternative
approach to standard pancreatectomy in selected cases. [36]

Functioning Pan-NETs �2 cm (e.g. insulinomas) represent
ideal lesions to be enucleated, given that they are safely
distant from the main pancreatic duct. The role of enucleation for NF-Pan-NETs is currently limited to selected
patients with small lesions in whom a watch-and-wait
management is contraindicated.
Surgery may also play a role in the presence of
borderline or locally advanced Pan-NETs. Pancreatectomy
with vascular resection is associated with improved outcomes and it should be carefully considered in the
presence of portal and/or superior mesenteric vein invasion. The presence of other high-risk features (e.g. large
tumour size and/or high-grade Pan-NEC G3) should
discourage an upfront surgical approach [IV, A]. Despite
the lack of evidence, in selected patients with high-risk
features, a neoadjuvant treatment may be considered.
The role of surgery for localised Pan-NEC G3 is still
controversial, as upfront surgery may not have a clear
benefit in terms of survival. [37]

For Pan-NETs in patients affected by MEN1 syndrome, see
Section 1 of supplementary Material, available at Annals of
Oncology online.

SI-NETs

Macroscopic radical resection of localised SI-NETs reduces
the risk of intestinal complications (bowel obstruction and
ischaemia), is associated with improved outcomes [38] and is
recommended along with systematic mesenteric lymphadenectomy [IV, A] (Figure 2). Surgical indication for SI-NETs
is influenced by the multifocality of these lesions and by the
high likelihood of nodal involvement. [39] During surgery for
SI-NETs, an accurate palpation of the entire intestine and a
systematic lymphadenectomy (at least 8 nodes) are
mandatory. [39][,][40] The frequent presentation at an emergency
setting as well as the rarity of the disease increase the risk

- f an inadequate surgical resection. Surgery is also generally
recommended in the presence of locally advanced SI-NETs,
as the presence of a large mesenteric mass can cause acute

- r chronic intestinal obstruction and/or localised/diffuse
intestinal ischaemia [V, B]. In these cases, a macroscopic
radical resection of primary SI-NETs and regional lymph
nodes can be achieved in �80% of cases if carried out by
experienced surgeons. [40]

Recommendations

 - Surgery is the treatment of choice for local or locoregional disease in NET G1 and G2. Before any

Figure 2. Surgical approach in SI-NETs.
NET, neuroendocrine tumour; RECIST, response evaluation criteria in solid tumours; SI-NET, small intestinal neuroendocrine tumour.
a Slow tumour growth is defined as stable disease by RECIST criteria (for >1 year). Surgery and/or liver-directed locoregional options may be combined and/or
alternative options in patients with liver metastases, where applicable.
b To be considered only in exceptional cases (particularly in functioning tumours) in the absence of extrahepatic disease, histological confirmation of a well-differentiated
(G1eG2, Ki-67 <10%) NET, previous removal of primary tumour, metastatic diffusion <50% of the total liver volume, stable disease on medical therapies for at least 6
months before transplant consideration and age <60 years.

848 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304) Volume 31 - Issue 7 - 2020


intervention, medical treatment is required in functionally active tumours [IV, A].

 - For NF-Pan-NETs �2 cm, a conservative approach with
surveillance consisting of yearly, high-quality imaging is
suggested [IV, B].

 - For Pan-NETs >2 cm, the risk of nodal metastases is
increased, therefore, a standard pancreatectomy (pancreaticoduodenectomy or distal pancreatectomy) with
regional lymphadenectomy is recommended [IV, A].

 - The presence of high-risk features (e.g. large borderline
tumour size and/or high-grade Pan-NEC G3) should
discourage an upfront surgical approach [IV, A].

 - NF-Pan-NETs in the setting of MEN1 syndrome are often
stable or slow growing; therefore, a watch-and-wait
management of these tumours can be safely adopted
when �2 cm in size [IV, A].

 - When surgery is indicated, a minimally invasive approach
is recommended whenever feasible [IV, B].

 - Macroscopic radical resection of localised SI-NETs is
recommended along with systematic mesenteric
lymphadenectomy [IV, A].

 - Surgery is also recommended in the presence of locally
advanced SI-NETs, as the presence of large mesenteric
mass can cause acute or chronic intestinal obstruction

and/or localised/diffuse intestinal ischaemia [V, B].

MANAGEMENT OF ADVANCED/METASTATIC DISEASE

Surgery for metastatic disease

Given the relatively indolent behaviour of a large fraction of
GEP-NETs, surgery also plays a role in metastatic disease. [41]

A surgical approach is indicated in selected patients affected
by stage IV GEP-NETs who have exclusive or predominant
liver involvement, after having carefully evaluated the
tumour grading, distribution of LMs and primary site [IV, B].
Upfront surgery should be excluded in the presence of
extra-abdominal metastases and high-grade GEP-NENs [IV,
B]. [42] It seems reasonable to consider the presence of an
advanced NEC G3 as an absolute contraindication for sur
gery [IV, A], whereas NET G3 should not be excluded a
priori.
Another crucial parameter for considering a surgical
approach is the distribution of LMs. [43] Surgical resection
should be attempted in the presence of resectable or
potentially resectable LMs. [43] A curative resection (R0, R1) of
GEP-NETs with LMs is associated with a 5-year overall survival (OS) rate of around 85%. [41] Preselection biases due to
better performance status (PS) or less advanced disease are
likely to influence this result. GEP-NET LMs are frequently
more extensive than those which are identified, even
intraoperatively, and a real curative resection is difficult to
achieve. The role of palliative resection is controversial
when multiple, unresectable LMs are present. Primary site
and presence of symptoms are important factors to be
considered before planning a possible palliative surgical

resection.

Palliative resection of primary SI-NETs in advanced disease is generally indicated for preventing complications
related to bowel obstruction or intestinal ischaemia [IV, C].
However, it is controversial if primary tumour removal in
patients with stage IV disease translates to an improvement
in survival. A recent large single-centre experience
demonstrated no survival benefit in patients with stage IV
disease after prophylactic palliative SI-NET resection,
compared with no or delayed resection when needed. [44]

The role of debulking surgery in advanced NF-GEP-NETs is
unclear. [38][,][41] Debulking surgery is recommended for alleviating symptoms of the carcinoid syndrome (CS) in patients
affected by metastatic functioning SI-NETs [IV, B]. In those
patients with symptoms related to tumour burden,
debulking surgery may also be of benefit.
Patients with high tumour burden of functioning PanNETs may benefit from debulking surgery [e.g. insulinoma,
vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP)oma], and surgery is
generally recommended for this indication [IV, B]. The need
for palliative resection of NF-Pan-NETs is debated, as the
risk of tumour-related symptoms is low and is not considered in patients with Ki-67 >10% [IV, B]. Despite this, recent
evidence from retrospective series suggested that primary
Pan-NET resection is associated with better long-term

- utcomes. [45]

Nevertheless, the potential advantage  - f palliative
surgery, either primary tumour resection or debulking
surgery in advanced GEP-NETs is controversial in terms of
survival and underlies the bias of preselection of better
prognosis patients for surgery.
Liver transplantation may be a valid option in very
selected patients with unresectable LMs when the following
criteria are met: absence of extrahepatic disease, histological confirmation of a well-differentiated (G1/G2, Ki-67
<10%) NET, previous removal of primary tumour, metastatic diffusion <50% of the total liver volume, stable disease in response to therapy for at least 6 months before
transplant consideration and age <60 years [IV, B]. [20] In
these selected patients with good baseline prognostic

e
factors, a 5-year OS of 69% 97.2% has been reported. [46]

Liver transplantation is preferably considered in patients
with functioning tumours (CS refractory to systemic therapies due to high liver tumour burden and in those affected
by SI-NETs who usually exhibit a more favourable prognosis). Liver transplantation should be thoroughly discussed
within a NET-dedicated multidisciplinary team, carefully
considering all the alternative therapeutic options.
In patients with LMs who are ineligible for complete
surgical resection, vascular and ablative locoregional
modalities can be considered as an alternative to surgery.
Locoregional therapies are discussed in detail in Section 2 of
supplementary Material, available at Annals of Oncology

- nline. Locoregional treatments can also be considered as
alternative therapy to LM resection in patients with
resectable LMs [V, C]. Combining resection and radiofrequency ablation (RFA) may provide the opportunity to
achieve complete tumour removal, allowing more limited

Volume 31 - Issue 7 - 2020 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304) 849


resections when otherwise more extensive hepatectomies
could compromise residual liver function.

Adjuvant therapy

There are no data to support adjuvant therapy in NET G1/
G2, as data from prospective randomised clinical trials
(RCTs) are lacking [IV, A]. However, in aggressive NENs (NEC
G3), adjuvant therapy with platinum-based chemotherapy
(ChT) can be considered [V, C]. Prospective clinical trials are

warranted.

Medical therapy

The goal of systemic therapy is to control the tumourassociated clinical symptoms and the tumour growth [I, A].

Treatment for symptom control. The use of SSAs (octreotide, lanreotide) is standard first-line therapy in functioning
NETs. [47] Improvement of flushing and diarrhoea is achieved
in 70%e80% of patients by using slow-release formulations

[I, A]. SSAs are in general well tolerated except for mostly
transient GI side-effects (diarrhoea, abdominal discomfort,
flatulence, nausea). In case of radiological stable disease or
slow growth and worsening CS, it is common practice to
increase the SSA dose to greater than the standard dose

[octreotide long-acting release (LAR) 30 mg intramuscular
(i.m.) once every 4 weeks (q4w), lanreotide autogel (AG)
120 mg subcutaneous (s.c.) q4w] by shortening the injection interval to 3 or even 2 weeks of long-acting SSAs to
alleviate symptoms [48] although sufficient prospective data
are lacking to support this approach [IV, C]. Rescue s.c.

- ctreotide injections are used alternatively, particularly in
cases of intermittently increased symptoms. Pasireotide
LAR, a universal ligand to SSTR, may be considered off-label
based on its efficacy in subsets of patients with CS when
established options failed. [49] Furthermore, interferon alpha
(IFN-a) is approved for symptom control (3e5 million IU s.c.
three times weekly) with similar efficacy compared with
SSA, but it is usually used in second-line as an add-on
treatment to SSA in patients with refractory syndrome,
due to its less favourable toxicity profile (fatigue, weight
loss and, more rarely, depression) [II, B]. [50]

Telotristat ethyl is an oral inhibitor of tryptophan
hydroxylase, a rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of
serotonin, that has demonstrated a significant improvement in the number of bowel movements in a phase III
trial (TELESTAR) with 135 patients with refractory CS
diarrhoea (�4 bowel movements per day) compared with
placebo. Durable response (defined as �30% improvement
in bowel movements for >50% of the 12-week core study
period) occurred in 44% and 42% of the patients treated
with 250 mg or 500 mg three times a day (t.i.d.),
respectively. [51] A second placebo-controlled trial (TELECAST) including patients with less frequent bowel movements supports the efficacy and good tolerability of
telotristat ethyl. Adverse effects include mild elevations of
liver enzymes. Depression-related events and nausea were

- bserved at higher doses. [52] Patients with durable response

showed significant and/or meaningful improvements in
global quality of life (QoL), as well as nausea, pain,
diarrhoea and other GI symptoms. [53] Telotristat ethyl (250
mg t.i.d.) is approved for treatment of diarrhoea associated with CS in patients insufficiently controlled with SSA
and can be recommended for this indication as an add-on

treatment to SSA [I, A].
In progressive disease, peptide receptor radionuclide
therapy (PRRT) may be considered to improve symptoms

[II, B], although efficacy may not be durable
(Figure 3). [54][,][55] With regard to the CS in the NETTER-1
study, diarrhoea (present in 48% and 53% in the two
treatment arms) improved equally in 48% and in 43% of
the patients in the lutetium-177 ( [177] Lu)-DOTATATE þ

- ctreotide LAR 30 mg arm versus octreotide LAR 60 mg
arm, respectively; however, the time to deterioration
(TDD) in QoL for diarrhoea after PRRT is significantly
better than the TTD in the control arm. There was no
difference in control of other symptoms including flushing. [55] Noteworthy, acute aggravation of symptoms may

- ccur during or after PRRT (such as worsening of hypoglycaemia in insulinoma or diarrhoea in CS) and requires
careful observation [IV, A]. More data are needed to best
select treatment options in refractory CS, either dose
escalation of SSA or add-on of another treatment (e.g.
telotristat ethyl, IFN-a, PRRT).
Other treatment options for uncontrolled symptoms
include everolimus, particularly in metastatic insulinoma,
but also refractory CS with progressive disease, although it
is not approved in this indication by either the European
Medicines Agency (EMA) or the Food and Drug Association (FDA) [IV, B]. Diazoxide is of value in metastatic
insulinoma, as it inhibits the secretion of insulin by
tumour cells; SSA should be used under surveillance for
the risk of worsening hypoglycaemia. Metastatic gastrinoma may be well controlled with proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) alone over the long term; in uncontrolled
Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, SSAs may be used. [56] SSAs are
a standard of care in patients with other functioning PanNETs such as NET secreting VIP, glucagon and other
bioactive compounds (Table 3). PRRT is an effective
treatment for symptom control in functional Pan-NETs
refractory to SSA. [57]

Antiproliferative treatment. Predictive factors for therapy
selection are lacking. The choice of antiproliferative treatment is based on pathological and clinical features, tumour
extent, growth behaviour and SSTR imaging. Furthermore,
the sequential use of drugs is impacted by the evidence
level of drug activity, patient comorbidities and accessibility
to drugs in different countries.
Antiproliferative medical treatment  - ptions include
targeted drugs and systemic ChT. SSAs and IFN-a (also
named biotherapy) are the oldest targeted drugs used in
NETs while novel targeted drugs, such as the mammalian
target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitor everolimus and the
multiple tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) sunitinib, have been
introduced more recently in the management of NETs. None

850 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304) Volume 31 - Issue 7 - 2020


Figure 3. Therapeutic approach in NETs with carcinoid syndrome.
177Lu, lutetium-177; IFN-a, interferon alpha; LAR, long-acting release; NET, neuroendocrine tumour; PRRT, peptide receptor radionuclide therapy; RFA, radiofrequency
ablation; s.c., subcutaneous; SIRT, selective internal radiotherapy; SSA, somatostatin analogue; SSTR, somatostatin receptor; TACE, transarterial chemoembolisation;
TAE, transarterial embolisation; TE, telotristat ethyl.
a SSAs can be tried in SSTR-negative patients, particularly if tumour burden is very low and/or lesion size is very small (potentially false-negative SSTR status).
b Long-acting SSAs should be interrupted at least 4 weeks before PRRT and should be continued ‘not earlier than’ 1 h after PRRT cycle(s).
c PRRT may be considered in patients without prior tumour progression but with high tumour burden and uncontrolled diarrhoea (off-label).
d Above labelled dosages [shortening of the injection interval of long-acting SSAs (lanreotide 120 mg; octreotide 30 mg) to every 3 or 2 weeks instead of every 4 weeks]
(off-label) or short-acting octreotide s.c. as additional injections.
e IFN-a should be interrupted if PRRT is considered.
f TE can be continued with other treatments if patient has a benefit; it is not an option if patient has predominant flushing.

- f the available treatment options provides a cure, but
rather disease stabilisation with variable duration,
depending on different prognostic factors including grade,
tumour extent and slope of progression.

Somatostatin analogues. SSAs are an established antiproliferative therapy in metastatic GEP-NETs, based on two
placebo-controlled trials. Most frequently, they are used in
first-line treatment, based on their modest activity and the
settings in which they have been studied. Overall response
rates (ORRs) are low (<5%). The PROMID study showed
prolongation of time to tumour progression (TTP) in
therapy-naive advanced metastatic midgut NETs (mostly G1
and with low tumour burden) by 8.3 months; TTP with

- ctreotide LAR 30 mg was 14.3 months and 6 months with
placebo. [58]

The CLARINET study demonstrated efficacy not only in
midgut but also in Pan-NETs and NETs with high liver
tumour burden (>25%), and NET G2 with a Ki-67 of �10%.
Most patients (96%) had stable disease at study onset. The
median progression-free survival (PFS) was not reached
with lanreotide (>27 months) and was 18 months in the
placebo arm. [59] The CLARINET extension study also showed
efficacy in progressive disease patients with enteropancreatic NETs. [60] There is very good long-term tolerability

- f both SSAs. [47][,][58][,][59] SSAs can be recommended for tumour

growth control in advanced SSTR-positive, slowly-growing
GI and Pan-NETs up to a Ki-67 of 10% [I, A; European Society
for Medical Oncology-Magnitude of Clinical Benefit Scale
(ESMO-MCBS) v1.1 score: 3] for lanreotide and [I, A; ESMOMCBS v1.1 score: 2] for octreotide. SSAs can be recommended in patients with unknown disease status, stable or

Volume 31 - Issue 7 - 2020 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304) 851



progressive disease. Tumour burden may impact the treatment onset. Positive SSTR status is generally required but is
not predictive of response, and SSTR imaging, particularly
SRS, may miss small lesions of <1 cm in size. Since OS
benefit is lacking in both SSA trials (CLARINET OS data are
still premature), probably due to high crossover rates, [59][,][61]

and patients with indolent tumour behaviour may have
stable disease for long time, a watch-and-wait strategy may
be applied, particularly in patients with NET G1 and/or low
tumour burden (<10% liver tumour burden and absence of
extra-abdominal disease) and stable disease [IV, A]. A
watch-and-wait approach is less frequently applied in
advanced Pan-NETs, the majority of the patients have NET
G2 rather than NET G1.

IFN-a. Based on long-term experience in NETs [50] and
supported by recent results from a large randomised trial
(including 35% midgut NET, median PFS 15.4 months for
IFN-a and octreotide LAR), [62] IFN-a can be considered for
antiproliferative therapy if other treatment options have
been exploited or are not feasible (e.g. SSTR-negative status

- n functional imaging), particularly in midgut NETs, where
there are fewer options as compared with Pan-NETs [IV, B].

Everolimus. Everolimus has been studied extensively at a
dose of 10 mg/day in various subtypes of NENs and has
shown activity in Pan-, GI and pulmonary NETs. ORRs are
low (<10%) with everolimus. Three prospective studies
demonstrate a high disease control rate with everolimus in
Pan-NETs. Median PFS ranges from 9.7 months in heavily
pretreated patients (RADIANT-1 study) to 16.6 months in
patients with few prior therapies. [63][,][64]

The registration trial (RADIANT-3 study) with 410 patients
(including 40% therapy-naive patients) showed prolongation of PFS by 6.4 months in advanced progressive PanNETs; median PFS was 11 months with everolimus and 4.6
months with placebo. [65] There was a trend toward OS
benefit. [66] Everolimus is recommended in progressive PanNET G1/G2 with or without prior ChT [I, A; ESMO-MCBS
v1.1 score: 3]. Addition - f the SSA pasireotide to
everolimus did not provide a more durable benefit
compared with everolimus alone in progressive Pan-NETs
(COOPERATE-2 study) [64] ; thus, combination therapy of SSA
and everolimus is not recommended [II, D]; exceptions may
be functioning Pan-NETs. The positioning of everolimus in
the treatment algorithm for progressive Pan-NETs is further
studied in comparison with PRRT (COMPETE) and streptozotocin (STZ)-based ChT (SEQTOR) in ongoing clinical trials
(NCT03049189, NCT02246127).
The efficacy of everolimus in advanced NF-GI NETs with
poor prognosis has been demonstrated by the RADIANT-4
trial. [67] In this trial, 302 patients with GI and lung NETs
were included. Median PFS was 11 months with

everolimus and 3.9 months with placebo [hazard ratio
(HR) 0.48]. There was a benefit in terms of PFS prolon
e
gation in the GI subgroup [HR 0.56 (0.37 0.8)] and the

e
lung NET subgroup [HR 0.5 (0.28 0.88)], and everolimus is
EMA-approved for NF-GI and lung NETs. Everolimus should

be used in patients with clearly progressive GI NETs [I, A;
ESMO-MCBS v1.1 score: 3]. The efficacy derived from a
post hoc analysis revealed heterogeneous response patterns among GI NETs with limited benefit in indolent ileum
NET. [68] The author panel recommends the use of everolimus after PRRT in SI-NETs, when PRRT is available [V, A].
However, the treatment sequence needs to be further
studied in the absence of definite predictors of response.
Health-related QoL evaluation in the overall study population, as measured by the Functional Assessment of
Cancer Therapy-General Questionnaire (FACT-G) did not
identify statistically significant improvement with everolimus as compared with placebo. [69][,][70]

The use of everolimus is less clear in patients with
advanced NETs (carcinoids) associated with CS. Although a
prolongation of PFS had been shown with everolimus in
combination with octreotide compared with placebo and

- ctreotide, the result was not statistically significant (by
central reading) and everolimus is not registered for patients with functioning NETs [71] ; nevertheless, clinically
beneficial effects have been reported in CS patients. Of
note, the final OS results from the RADIANT-2 trial indicate a
trend toward unfavourable OS in the everolimus arm,
although not statistically different from the placebo arm.
Everolimus should be used with caution if considered for
patients with CS. [72]

Most frequent and relevant side-effects include stomatitis
(>60%), diarrhoea (w30%), fatigue (w30%), infections

e e
(20% 29%), pneumonitis (12% 16%) and hyperglycaemia

e
(10% 13%). A referral to the summary of product characteristics is recommended. [73] Across all randomised everolimus

trials, drug-related adverse events were mostly manageable.
However, around 60% required dose reduction or treatment
interruption. [65][,][67][,][71] Life-threatening side-effects may occur in
individual patients (e.g. serious infections, sepsis, thromboembolic events) and require comprehensive patienteducation
and regular careful follow-up investigations while patients are

- n everolimus treatment.

There are no data to support the use of everolimus in
NECs. However, small retrospective studies indicate some
value in Pan-NET G3. [74] Prospective phase II trials are

- ngoing to assess the activity of everolimus in NET G3 and
NECs (NCT02113800, NCT02248012).


Sunitinib. Sunitinib is the only multiple TKI that is EMAapproved in Pan-NETs [I, A; ESMO-MCBS v1.1 score: 3]. In
a randomised trial, sunitinib (37.5 mg/day) was compared
with placebo in 171 patients with advanced unresectable
Pan-NETs. A significantly longer PFS (11.4 versus 5.5
months) was noticed in favour of sunitinib [I, A]. [75] ORR was
<10%; there was a trend toward an OS benefit with
sunitinib. [76] While treatment was associated with modest
side-effects, there was no significant improvement in
multiple QoL domains, but worsening of diarrhoea with
sunitinib versus placebo. [77] Most frequent side-effects
include diarrhoea (59%), nausea (45%), asthenia (34%),
vomiting (34%) and fatigue (32%). Other side-effects include
hypertension (26%), lymphopaenia (26%) and hair colour

852 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304) Volume 31 - Issue 7 - 2020


changes (29%); referral to the summary of product
characteristics is recommended. [78] Results of a phase IV trial
confirm the efficacy and safety of sunitinib in patients with
advanced, well-differentiated Pan-NETs who were
treatment-naive or previously treated with other drugs. [79]

Sunitinib is recommended in the management - f
advanced progressive Pan-NETs [I, A]. The drug has no
indication in Pan-NECs due to the lack of data. Promising
data from a small phase II study in patients with NET G3 and
NEC [80] need to be validated in a larger study.
The appropriate sequencing of targeted drugs remains
unclear and is mostly dependent on patient individual
factors including comorbidities and side-effects of targeted
drugs. There are no data to support the use of TKIs outside

- f clinical trials in GI NETs. However, recent data from a
phase III placebo-controlled trial (SANET-ep) indicated
activity of surufatinib in extra-Pan-NETs in a Chinese population; surufatinib prolonged PFS by 5.4 months compared
with placebo in poor prognosis patients (>80% NET G2,
most frequent primary sites include the rectum and lung). [81]

Ongoing randomised controlled trials will provide more
data on TKIs in the future (see Section 3 of supplementary
Material, available at Annals of Oncology online).


Systemic ChT. The use of systemic ChT is recommended in
advanced Pan-NETs and in NEN G3 of any site [II, A]. Results
with systemic ChT for advanced well-differentiated
non-pancreatic NETs of the GI tract are poor; in a systematic review of patients with locally advanced or metastatic
well-differentiated G1/G2 GI NETs, the ORR was 11.5%

e
(range 5.8% 17.2%) [82] ; thus, ChT cannot be recommended
in this setting [II, C]. Preselection of patients with higher
probability of response (e.g. higher Ki-67 in the range of
15%e20%; significant progression) might be associated
with benefit from ChT. Systemic ChT may be considered
under these conditions in individual cases [V, C] (Figure 4).
Systemic ChT is indicated in patients with non-resectable
LMs and/or other distant metastases from G1/G2 Pan-NETs
using a combination of STZ and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) [II, A].
ORRs range between 35% and 40%. STZ-based ChT can be
considered upfront in bulky disease without documented
prior tumour progression. Recent retrospective analyses
from European centres support the efficacy demonstrated
in RCTs carried out a long time ago. [83][e][85] From retrospective
trials, temozolomide (TEM)-based ChT is active in Pan-NETs,
either alone or combined with capecitabine (CAP) [86] ;
preliminary results from the prospective explorative twoarm phase II trial of CAPTEM versus TEM in patients (n ¼
145) with progressive Pan-NETs confirm the efficacy of TEMbased ChT and suggest superiority of the combination
therapy (CAPTEM) compared with TEM alone with respect
to PFS prolongation (22.7 months versus 14.4 months,
respectively; HR 0.58, P ¼ 0.023) [II, B]. [87] However, unbalanced low-grade NETs and a longer time since diagnosis
to therapy in favour of the combination arm may have
impacted the results. ORRs were not different with TEM
(27.8%) versus CAPTEM (33.3%). The value of using O(6)methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase (MGMT) expression

- r promoter methylation for preselection of patients is
controversial. [86][,][88]

In cases of liver and/or other distant metastases from
high-grade small or large-cell NEC G3 regardless of the
primary tumour origin combination ChT, using cisplatin/
etoposide or carboplatin/etoposide is recommended [III, A].

e
Although ORRs may be high (30% 67%), median OS (mOS)

e
is very limited (11 19 months). Early treatment onset is
crucial for the outcome. There is no established second-line

therapy for poorly differentiated NECs, but retrospective
studies from single centres indicate some efficacy of TEM
alone or in combination with CAP � bevacizumab, of 5-FU
intravenously or CAP orally, combined with either oxaliplatin or irinotecan [IV, B]. [89][,][90]

The ORR with cisplatin-based ChT in NET G3 (in general,
Ki-67 is <55%) is much lower than in NEC and cisplatin/
etoposide is not recommended [IV, C]. Other options may
be considered including TEM, targeted drugs, PRRT in
selected cases and STZ-based ChT in the case of Pan-NETs

(Figure 4).

PRRT. PRRT is a therapeutic option in progressive SSTRpositive NETs with homogenous SSTR expression (all NET
lesions are positive) assessed by SSTR imaging. [91][,][92] The two
peptides most commonly used for PRRT are DOTATOC and
DOTATATE. [177] Lu is increasingly preferred to yttrium-90
( [90] Y)-labelled SSA due to its much lower kidney toxicity
and the possibility to carry out scintigraphy and thus
dosimetry.
Recently, the multicentre prospective phase III NETTER-1
trial has compared 177Lu-DOTATATE (7.4 GBq every 8
weeks, four intravenous infusions) in association with 30 mg

- ctreotide LAR versus 60 mg octreotide LAR alone (every 4
weeks) in 229 patients with metastatic well-differentiated
(G1/G2) midgut NETs. [93] Patients had progressive disease
within a time frame of up to 3 years, and all had previously
been treated with a standard dose of SSA. [177] Lu-DOTATATE

was superior to high-dose octreotide in terms of PFS (primary end point). Median PFS (mPFS) with [177] Lu-DOTATATE
was 28.4 months while it was 8.5 months with high-dose

- ctreotide (HR for disease progression 0.214; 95% CI
0.139e0.331). [94][ 177] Lu-DOTATATE was also associated with
a higher ORR (18% versus 3%) at 3 months after the fourth
PRRT cycle. OS analysis is premature and indicates a trend
towards OS benefit. [93][,][94] Treatment was also associated with
an improvement in symptoms and time to QoL deterioration for global health status, physical functioning, fatigue,
pain and diarrhoea. [55] PRRT can be recommended in patients with midgut NETs with disease progression on SSAs
who fulfil the general requirements for PRRT that are
reported elsewhere [I, A]. [95] PRRT can also be considered at
further therapy lines and in NETs from other sites than
midgut (Figure 4). Several phase II trials and observational
studies that recruited more than 1000 patients reported

- verall ORRs ranging between 4% and 39% in patients
with both functioning and NF-SSTR-positive NETs including
NETs of the pancreas or GI tract outside the midgut
region. [54][,][96][e][98] 177Lu-DOTATATE has been approved by

Volume 31 - Issue 7 - 2020 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304) 853


Figure 4. Systemic therapy in GEP-NENs.
The stratification factors are not predictive, but prognostic.
A watch-and-wait approach is recommended in asymptomatic low-grade tumour patients with absence of morphological progression. Locoregional therapy may be
considered as an alternative approach to systemic therapies in SI- and Pan-NETs in liver disease only or predominant liver disease if extrahepatic lesions are stable.
Locoregional therapy may also be considered early in NET G2 patients and advanced disease.
In Pan-NET G3 with moderate Ki-67, the treatment is similar to Pan-NET G2. The choice of ChT is mainly based on the tumour growth rate and Ki-67. STZ-based and TEMbased therapies provide similar ORRs, although a comparative study is not available.
STZ has been combined with doxorubicin in Pan-NETs and produced high ORRs, but its use is limited due to potential cardiotoxicity to maximal cumulative dose of 400
mg/m [2] .
One author (EPK) indicates that in SSTR-positive Pan-NET G1/G2 (Ki-67 <10%) PRRT might be considered after first-line SSA or chemotherapy, equal to the choice of
targeted drugs and that in SI NET G2 (Ki-67>10%) PRRT could be considered equal to everolimus.
Green arrows indicate progressive disease.
5-FU, 5-fluorouracil; CAP, capecitabine; CAPTEM, capecitabine and temozolomide; ChT, chemotherapy; EVE, everolimus; FOLFIRI, 5-fluorouracil/leucovorin/irinotecan;
FOLFOX, 5-fluorouracil/leucovorin/oxaliplatin; GEP-NEN, gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine neoplasm; IFN-a, interferon alpha; NEC, neuroendocrine carcinoma;
NET, neuroendocrine tumour; ORR, overall response rate; Pan-NET, pancreatic neuroendocrine tumour; PRRT, peptide receptor radionuclide therapy; RECIST, response
evaluation criteria in solid tumours; SI, small intestinal; SI-NET, small intestinal neuroendocrine tumour; SSA, somatostatin analogue; SSTR, somatostatin receptor; STZ,
streptozotocin; SUN, sunitinib; TEM, temozolomide.
a Slow tumour growth is defined as stable disease by RECIST criteria for >1 year.
b In liver-dominant disease.
c If PRRT is not available, everolimus can be used as second-line therapy.
d Rapid growth is defined as RECIST progression within a year or less.
e In liver-only disease or predominant liver disease.
f If SSTR-positive.

the EMA and the FDA, not only in patients with midgut
NETs [I, A; ESMO-MCBS v1.1 score: 4] but also in patients
with Pan-NETs [III, A; ESMO-MCBS v1.1 score: 4]. Results
from RCTs with PRRT in Pan-NETs are lacking and molecular
targeted agents, such as everolimus or sunitinib, and systemic ChT may therefore be preferred treatment choices,
and PRRT after failure of these approved therapies [III, A]
(Figure 4). However, one author (EPK) feels that PRRT
should be considered earlier in the treatment algorithm for
SSTR-positive Pan-NETs.

For more information about selection criteria and PRRT

biomarkers, see Section 4 of supplementary Material,
available at Annals of Oncology online.
The published data on results of PRRT in NEN G3 of about
280 patients in four retrospective studies with a number of
patients ranging between 28e149 with Ki-67 >20% support
the therapeutic consideration of PRRT also in this group of
patients. [99][e][102] The overall results show disease control
rates between 30% and 80%, PFS 9e23 months and OS 19e
53 months. The results were significantly better in patients

854 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304) Volume 31 - Issue 7 - 2020


with a Ki-67 <55% compared with those with higher Ki-67
values (there are fewer patients with a Ki-67 >55%). In
patients with a Ki-67 of >35%, mPFS was 6.8 months in one
study, [101] and in patient subgroups with Ki-67 >55%, mPFS
was 6 months, 4 months and 4 months, respectively from
the different studies. [99][,][100][,][102] PRRT may be considered in
patients with NET G3 [IV, C], however, patients need to be
carefully selected and prospective trials are warranted to
further establish which patients with NEN G3 might benefit
most from PRRT. The NETTER-2 trial has recently been
initiated to address this issue (NCT03972488).
Treatment with [177] Lu-DOTATATE is in general considered

e
safe, however, up to 3% 4% of the patients may develop
irreversible bone marrow toxicity such as leukaemia or bone
marrow dysplasia. Mild renal toxicity grade 1/2 has been reported long term in 30% of the patients (see Section 5 of
supplementary Material, available at Annals of Oncology

- nline).
For more information about PRRT and SSA combination

and maintenance therapy, see Section 6 of supplementary
Material, available at Annals of Oncology online.

Recommendations

 - A surgical approach is indicated in selected patients
affected by stage IV GEP-NETs who show exclusive or predominant liver disease after careful evaluation of tumour

grading, distribution of LMs and primary site [IV, B].

 - Upfront surgery is not indicated in the presence of extraabdominal metastases and high-grade GEP-NENs [IV, B].

 - Presence of an advanced NEC G3 is considered an abso
lute contraindication for an upfront surgery [IV, A].

 - Palliative resection of primary SI-NETs in advanced disease is generally indicated for preventing complications
related to bowel obstruction or intestinal ischaemia [IV,
C]. However, it is controversial if primary tumour
removal in patients with stage IV disease translates to
an improvement in survival.

 - Debulking surgery is recommended for alleviating symptoms in patients affected by metastatic functioning
SI-NETs [IV, B].

 - In advanced Pan-NETs with uncontrolled symptoms
related to hormone hypersecretion, debulking surgery
may be indicated [IV, B], but is generally not considered
in patients with Ki-67 >10% [IV, B].

 - Liver transplantation may be a valid option in very
selected patients with unresectable LMs [IV, B].

 - Locoregional treatments can be considered as an
alternative therapy to LM resection in patients with
resectable LMs [V, C].

 - Adjuvant therapy is not indicated in NET G1/G2 [IV, A].
However, in aggressive NENs (NEC G3), adjuvant therapy
with platinum-based ChT may be considered [V, C].

 - Vascular and ablative locoregional treatments are valid

  - ptions for treatment of LMs, also in conjunction with

  - ther systemic therapies or in combination with surgery.
The choice of the procedures depends on the local

expertise, the extension and vascularisation of LMs and
the localisation of liver involvement [V, C].

- In functional NETs, locoregional therapies should be
applied early, following SSA therapy, to further improve
control of hormonal symptoms and prevent complications (e.g. carcinoid crisis in serotonin-secreting NETs)

[IV, A].

- In patients with NF-NETs with disease limited to the liver,
locoregional therapies can be considered as an alternative to systemic treatment [IV, B].

- Systemic therapy should be administered to control
tumour-associated clinical symptoms and tumour growth

[I, A].

- The use of SSAs is standard first-line therapy in patients
with CS and some rare functional Pan-NETs (e.g. VIPoma,
glucagonoma) [I, A].

- In patients with refractory diarrhoea related to CS, telotristat ethyl can be recommended as an add-on treatment to SSAs [I, A].

- SSA dose increase is an alternative approach to improve
symptoms in refractory CS [IV, C], as well as the use of
IFN-a, although it is less well tolerated [II, B].

- In progressive disease, PRRT may have a significant
impact on diarrhoea control in patients with CS [II, B].

- Hormonal crisis may occur soon after PRRT and requires
careful information to be given to the patient before and
directly after PRRT, and eventually admission and proper
treatment [IV, A].

- The choice of antiproliferative treatment is based on
pathological and clinical features, tumour extent, growth
behaviour and SSTR imaging.

- A watch-and-wait strategy may be followed in patients
with low Ki-67 (<2%), low tumour burden and stable
disease [IV, A], preferably in SI-NETs with long-term
favourable prognosis.

- SSAs can be recommended as first-line therapy for
tumour growth control in advanced, slowly-growing
SSTR-positive GI and Pan-NETs up to a Ki-67 of 10% [I,
A; ESMO-MCBS v1.1 score: 3] for lanreotide and [I, A;
ESMO-MCBS v1.1 score: 2] for octreotide. Positive SSTR
status is generally required but is not predictive of

response.

- IFN-a can be considered for antiproliferative therapy
if other treatment options have been exploited or
are not feasible (e.g. SSTR-negative on functional
imaging), particularly in midgut NETs, where there
are fewer therapy options compared with Pan-NETs

[IV, B].

- Everolimus is EMA-approved for progressive Pan-NET G1/
G2 with or without prior ChT, for NF-GI and lung NETs [I, A;
ESMO-MCBS v1.1 score: 3]. In GI NETs, everolimus should
be used in patients with clearly progressive disease [I, A].

- The use of everolimus after PRRT is recommended in

intestinal NETs, if PRRT is available [V, A], although the
treatment sequence needs to be further studied in the
absence of definite predictors of response.

- The combination therapy of SSA and everolimus for an
antiproliferative purpose is not recommended [II, D].

Volume 31 - Issue 7 - 2020 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304) 855


 - Sunitinib is one of the EMA-approved treatment options
in advanced progressive Pan-NETs [I, A; ESMO-MCBS v1.1
score: 3].

 - Both sunitinib and everolimus cannot be recommended

in NEC G3 outside of clinical trials [V, E].

 - The use of systemic ChT is recommended in advanced
Pan-NETs and in NEN G3 of any site [II, A].

B In patients with non-resectable LMs and/or other
distant metastases from G1/G2 Pan-NETs, STZ/5-FU is
recommended in progressive disease [II, A].

B TEM alone or in combination with CAP is recommen
ded as alternative ChT in Pan-NETs [II, B].

B Systemic ChT can also be recommended in bulky
disease without prior tumour progression in
Pan-NETs [II, B].

B Cisplatin or carboplatin with etoposide is recommended standard first-line ChT in NEC G3 [III, A]. There is
no established second-line therapy, but different
regimens [e.g. 5-FU/leucovorin/irinotecan (FOLFIRI),
5-FU/leucovorin/oxaliplatin (FOLFOX), CAPTEM   bevacizumab] may be considered [IV, B].

 - In NET G3, response rates to cisplatin/etoposide are
low, and the use of this combination is not recommended [IV, C].

 - ChT cannot be recommended in well-differentiated

slowly growing NETs of the GI tract [II, C]; exceptions
may be rapidly progressive tumours or NET G2 with
higher Ki-67 close to NET G3 [V, C].

 - PRRT is recommended as second-line therapy in patients
with midgut NETs with disease progression on SSAs who
fulfil the general requirements for PRRT [I, A].

 - [177] Lu-DOTATATE is EMA- and FDA-approved for patients
with midgut NETs [I, A; ESMO-MCBS v1.1 score: 4] and
Pan-NETs [III, A; ESMO-MCBS v1.1 score: 4].

 - In Pan-NETs, PRRT should be used after failure of
approved therapies [III, A].

 - In carefully selected patients, PRRT may be considered in
NET G3 [IV, C].

 - SSA should be combined with PRRT in patients with
functioning tumours (CS) to prevent increasing symptoms such as diarrhoea and/or flushing and hormonal
crisis soon after PRRT [II, A].

 - It is also common practice to continue SSA beyond PRRT
in functioning tumours, as a full resolution of CS-related
symptoms is rarely achieved after PRRT [II, A].

 - The combination of SSA with PRRT is not recommended

in patients with NF-NETs, [IV, C] and it remains unclear if
SSA should be continued after PRRT as a maintenance

therapy.

PERSONALISED MEDICINE

In the absence of definite predictive markers and paucity of
comparative randomised trials, therapy selection in
advanced non-resectable disease is frequently based on
individual patient clinical and pathological features and
SSTR imaging [IV, A]. Several issues are unresolved: to
consider surgery upfront for potentially resectable LMs or
systemic therapy, - r locoregional therapies. Among

systemic treatments, approved drugs should be used with
higher priority, although comorbidities and age may impact
treatment choices. The treatment selection should be based

- n an interdisciplinary tumour board decision in experienced centres including experts familiar with the disease.
Recently identified prognostic molecular markers may have
an impact on therapy strategies in the future if validated in
prospective trials. A recent meta-analysis identified a diagnostic accuracy of a NET mRNA genomic biomarker (NETest)

- f 95%e96%; this marker seems to have a predictive value
for PRRT response and achievement of complete surgery. [103]

Recommendation

 - In the absence of definite predictive markers and paucity

  - f comparative randomised trials, therapy selection in
advanced disease is often based on individual patient clinical and pathological features and SSTR imaging [IV, A].

FOLLOW-UP, LONG-TERM IMPLICATION AND

SURVIVORSHIP

Follow-up investigations should include clinical symptom
monitoring, biochemical parameters and conventional and
SSTR imaging [V, B]. In patients with R0/R1-resected NET G1
and NET G2 with low Ki-67 (<5%), it is recommended that
imaging is carried out every 6 months (CT or MRI), in NET
G2 (Ki-67 >5%) every 3 months and in NEC G3 every 2e3
months [V, C]. Similar staging intervals apply to advanced
disease. Follow-up should be life long, although the staging
intervals can be extended to 1e2 years with increasing
length of follow-up (>5 years), except in G3 NEN, where

e
shorter intervals should be kept. Late recurrences after 10
20 years have been described, although rare. In contrast,
small localised NET G1 (<1 cm in size) with origin in the
appendix - r rectum do not need any follow-up if
R0-resected and in the absence of adverse histological
features [IV, A].
Imaging with [68] Ga/ [64] Cu-SSTR-PET-CT, or if not available
with SSTR scintigraphy as a considerably less sensitive
alternative, should be included in the follow-up and is
recommended after 12e36 months if expression of SSTR-2a
has been demonstrated on the tumour cells by previous
SSTR imaging or IHC. [91][,][92] In the follow-up, a re-biopsy of the
liver or other disease site (in absence of LMs) may be
considered under special circumstances, e.g. if a second
malignancy is suspected or the tumour growth behaviour is
inconsistent with the known Ki-67 and warrants exclusion of
a NEC. Biochemical markers include CgA and specific biomarkers in functional tumours; if CgA is not elevated, NSE
represents an alternative biomarker, mostly in NET G2 or
NEN G3. There is no validated tumour marker for recurrence

detection; the NETest has potential to predict response to
PRRT and detect residual disease after surgery and was
superior to CgA in a validation study. [104][e][106]

In NEN G3 clinical symptoms (weight loss, fatigue; also
indicative in G1 and G2) may indicate recurrence. NSE and
lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) should be monitored in NEC;

856 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304) Volume 31 - Issue 7 - 2020

CgA may also be elevated in NET G3. Conventional imaging
includes thoracic and abdominal scans every 2e3 months.
FDG-PET may be required in case of suspected recurrence to
discriminate lesions from unspecific findings; otherwise,
high-resolution CT is the imaging method of choice, unless
resection is considered in locally advanced NEN G3,
where FDG-PET is mandatory to exclude distant metastatic

disease.

Recommendations

 - Follow-up investigations should include clinical symptom
monitoring, biochemical parameters and conventional
and SSTR imaging [V, B].

 - In patients with R0/R1-resected NET G1eG2, it is recommended that imaging is carried out every 3e6 months

e
(CT or MRI), and in NEC G3 every 2 3 months [V, C].
Similar staging intervals apply to advanced disease.

 - Follow-up should be lifelong, although the staging inter
e
vals may be extended to 1 2 years with increasing
length of follow-up.

 - Small localised NET G1 (<1 cm in size) with origin in the
appendix or rectum do not need any follow-up if
R0-resected and in the absence of adverse histological
features [IV, A].

METHODOLOGY

These Clinical Practice Guidelines were developed in
accordance with the ESMO standard operating procedures
[for Clinical Practice Guidelines development, http://www.](http://www.esmo.org/Guidelines/ESMOGuidelines-Methodology)
[esmo.org/Guidelines/ESMOGuidelines-Methodology.](http://www.esmo.org/Guidelines/ESMOGuidelines-Methodology) The
relevant literature has been selected by the expert authors.
An ESMO-MCBS table with ESMO-MCBS scores is included

in supplementary Table S4, available at Annals of Oncology

- nline. [107] Levels of evidence and grades of recommendation have been applied using the system shown in
supplementary Table S5, available at Annals of Oncology

- nline. [108] Statements without grading were considered
justified standard clinical practice by the experts and the
ESMO Faculty. This manuscript has been subjected to an
anonymous peer review process.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The ESMO Guidelines Committee would like to thank the

ESMO Faculty and other experts who provided critical reviews of these ESMO Clinical Practice Guidelines. They
would also like to thank the European Cancer Patient
Coalition and the CarciNor group for their review.

FUNDING

No external funding has been received for the preparation

- f these guidelines. Production costs have been covered by
ESMO from central funds.

DISCLOSURE

MP received honoraria for advisory board and presentations
from Novartis, IPSEN, Pfizer, Advanced Accelerator

Applications and Lexicon, honoraria for presentations for
Prime Oncology and research funding from IPSEN and
Novartis. MF received honoraria for presentations from
Novartis, IPSEN, Advanced Accelerator Applications and
Prime Oncology, honoraria for advisory board from
Advanced Accelerator Applications and research funding
from IPSEN and Novartis. EPK has an employment interest at
Cyclotron Rotterdam BV, stock or other interest, patent or
intellectual property interest, travel, accommodation and
expenses from Advanced Accelerator Applications. AS has
received lecture honoraria from Ipsen and honoraria from
Advanced Accelerator Applications. AB has received
consultation, advisory and paid public speaking from Bayer,
Janssen, Astellas and Novartis and research grants from
Janssen and Astellas. AP and KÖ have declared no potential
conflicts of interest.

REFERENCES
[1. Dasari A, Shen C, Halperin D, et al. Trends in the incidence, preva-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref1)
[lence and survival outcomes in patients with neuroendocrine tumors](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref1)
[in the United States. JAMA Oncol. 2017;3:1335e1342.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref1)
[2. Fraenkel M, Kim M, Faggiano A, et al. Incidence of gastro-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref2)
[enteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumours: a systematic review of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref2)
[the literature. Endocr Relat Cancer. 2014;21:R153eR163.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref2)
[3. Leoncini E, Boffetta P, Shafir M, et al. Increased incidence trend of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref3)
[low-grade and high-grade neuroendocrine neoplasms. Endocrine.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref3)

[2017;58:368e379.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref3)
[4. Huguet I, Grossman AB, O’Toole D. Changes in the epidemiology of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref4)
[neuroendocrine tumours. Neuroendocrinology. 2017;104:105e111.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref4)
[5. Rindi G, Falconi M, Klersy C, et al. TNM Staging of neoplasms of the](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref5)
[endocrine pancreas: results from a large international cohort study.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref5)
[J Natl Cancer Inst. 2012;104:764e777.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref5)
[6. Scarpa A, Chang DK, Nones K, et al. Whole-genome landscape of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref6)
[pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours. Nature. 2017;543:65e71.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref6)
[7. Perren A, Couvelard A, Scoazec JY, et al. ENETS Consensus guidelines](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref7)
[for the standards of care in neuroendocrine tumors: pathology:](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref7)
diagnosis and prognostic [stratification.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref7) Neuroendocrinology.

[2017;105:196e200.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref7)
[8. Kloeppel G. Pancreatic neuroendocrine neoplasias. In: The WHO](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref8)
[Classification of Endocrine Tumors. Lyon, France: IARC Press; 2017.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref8)
[9. WHO Classification of Tumours Editorial Board; Digestive System](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref9)
[Tumours, WHO Classification of Tumours. 5th ed. Lyon, France: IARC](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref9)

[Press; 2019.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref9)

[10. de Mestier L, Hentic O, Cros J, et al. Metachronous hormonal syn-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref10)
[dromes in patients with pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors: a case-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref10)
[series study. Ann Intern Med. 2015;162:682e689.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref10)
[11. Brierley JD, Gospodarowicz MK, Wittekind C. TNM Classification of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref11)
[Malignant Tumours. 8th ed. Oxford, UK: John Wiley & Sons; 2016.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref11)
[12. Sundin A, Arnold R, Baudin E, et al. ENETS Consensus guidelines for](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref12)
[the standards of care in neuroendocrine tumors: radiological, nuclear](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref12)
[medicine & hybrid imaging. Neuroendocrinology. 2017;105:212e244.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref12)
[13. Norlen O, Montan H, Hellman P, et al. Preoperative (68)Ga-DOTA-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref13)
[somatostatin analog-PET/CT hybrid imaging increases detection rate](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref13)

[of intra-abdominal small Intestinal neuroendocrine tumor lesions.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref13)

[World J Surg. 2018;42:498e505.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref13)
[14. Gabriel M, Decristoforo C, Kendler D, et al. 68Ga-DOTA-Tyr3-octreotide](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref14)
[PET in neuroendocrine tumors: comparison with somatostatin receptor](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref14)
[scintigraphy and CT. J Nucl Med. 2007;48:508e518.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref14)
[15. Procacci C, Carbognin G, Accordini S, et al. Nonfunctioning endocrine](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref15)
[tumors of the pancreas: possibilities of spiral CT characterization. Eur](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref15)
[Radiol. 2001;11:1175e1183.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref15)
[16. Fidler JL, Fletcher JG, Reading CC, et al. Preoperative detection of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref16)
[pancreatic insulinomas on multiphasic helical CT. AJR Am J Roent-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref16)
[genol. 2003;181:775e780.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref16)

Volume 31 - Issue 7 - 2020 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304) 857

[17. Gouya H, Vignaux O, Augui J, et al. CT, endoscopic sonography, and a](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref17)
[combined protocol for preoperative evaluation of pancreatic insuli-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref17)
[nomas. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2003;181:987e992.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref17)
[18. Kim JH, Eun HW, Kim YJ, et al. Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumour](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref18)
[(PNET): Staging accuracy of MDCT and its diagnostic performance for](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref18)
[the differentiation of PNET with uncommon CT findings from](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref18)
[pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Eur Radiol. 2016;26:1338e1347.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref18)
[19. Putzer D, Gabriel M, Henninger B, et al. Bone metastases in patients](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref19)
[with neuroendocrine tumor: 68Ga-DOTA-Tyr3-octreotide PET in com-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref19)
[parison to CT and bone scintigraphy. J Nucl Med. 2009;50:1214e1221.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref19)
[20. Schmid-Tannwald C, Schmid-Tannwald CM, Morelli JN, et al. Com-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref20)
[parison of abdominal MRI with diffusion-weighted imaging to 68Ga-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref20)
[DOTATATE PET/CT in detection of neuroendocrine tumors of the](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref20)

[pancreas. Eur J Nucl Med Mol Imaging. 2013;40:897e907.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref20)
[21. Brenner R, Metens T, Bali M, et al. Pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor:](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref21)
[added value of fusion of T2-weighted imaging and high b-value](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref21)
[diffusion-weighted imaging for tumor detection. Eur J Radiol.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref21)

[2012;81:e746ee749.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref21)
[22. d’Assignies G, Fina P, Bruno O, et al. High sensitivity of diffusion-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref22)
[weighted MR imaging for the detection of liver metastases from](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref22)
[neuroendocrine tumors: comparison with T2-weighted and dynamic](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref22)
[gadolinium-enhanced MR imaging. Radiology. 2013;268:390e399.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref22)
[23. Ronot M, Clift AK, Baum RP, et al. Morphological and functional](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref23)
[imaging for detecting and assessing the resectability of neuroendo-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref23)
[crine liver metastases. Neuroendocrinology. 2018;106:74e88.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref23)
[24. Dromain C, de Baere T, Lumbroso J, et al. Detection of liver metas-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref24)
[tases from endocrine tumors: a prospective comparison of somato-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref24)
[statin receptor scintigraphy, computed tomography, and magnetic](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref24)
[resonance imaging. J Clin Oncol. 2005;23:70e78.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref24)
[25. Cwikla JB, Buscombe JR, Caplin ME, et al. Diagnostic imaging of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref25)
[carcinoid metastases to the abdomen and pelvis. Med Sci Monit.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref25)
[2004;10(Suppl 3):9e16.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref25)
[26. Chambers AJ, Pasieka JL, Dixon E, Rorstad O. Role of imaging in the](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref26)
[preoperative staging of small bowel neuroendocrine tumors. J Am](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref26)
[Coll Surg. 2010;211:620e627.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref26)
[27. Anderson MA, Carpenter S, Thompson NW, et al. Endoscopic ultra-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref27)
[sound is highly accurate and directs management in patients with](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref27)
[neuroendocrine tumors of the pancreas. Am J Gastroenterol.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref27)

[2000;95:2271e2277.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref27)
[28. Geijer H, Breimer LH. Somatostatin receptor PET/CT in neuroendo-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref28)
[crine tumours: update on systematic review and meta-analysis. Eur J](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref28)
[Nucl Med Mol Imaging. 2013;40:1770e1780.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref28)
[29. Binderup T, Knigge U, Loft A, et al. 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref29)
[emission tomography predicts survival of patients with neuroendo-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref29)
[crine tumors. Clin Cancer Res. 2010;16:978e985.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref29)
[30. Has Simsek D, Kuyumcu S, Turkmen C, et al. Can complementary](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref30)
[68Ga-DOTATATE and 18F-FDG PET/CT establish the missing link](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref30)
between histopathology and [therapeutic](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref30) approach in gastro[enteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors? J Nucl Med. 2014;55:](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref30)

[1811e1817.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref30)

[31. Naswa N, Sharma P, Gupta SK, et al. Dual tracer functional imaging of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref31)
[gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors using 68Ga-DOTA-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref31)
[NOC PET-CT and 18F-FDG PET-CT: competitive or complimentary? Clin](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref31)
[Nucl Med. 2014;39:e27ee34.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref31)
[32. Partelli S, Cirocchi R, Crippa S, et al. Systematic review of active](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref32)
[surveillance versus surgical management of asymptomatic small](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref32)
[non-functioning pancreatic neuroendocrine neoplasms. Br J Surg.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref32)

[2017;104:34e41.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref32)

[33. Falconi M, Eriksson B, Kaltsas G, et al. ENETS Consensus guidelines](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref33)
[update for the management of patients with functional pancreatic](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref33)
[neuroendocrine tumors and non-functional pancreatic neuroendo-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref33)
[crine tumors. Neuroendocrinology. 2016;103:153e171.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref33)
[34. Jilesen AP, van Eijck CH, in’t Hof KH, et al. Postoperative complica-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref34)
[tions, in-hospital mortality and 5-year survival after surgical resection](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref34)
[for patients with a pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor: a systematic](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref34)
[review. World J Surg. 2016;40:729e748.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref34)
[35. Partelli S, Gaujoux S, Boninsegna L, et al. Pattern and clinical predictors](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref35)

[of lymph node involvement in nonfunctioning pancreatic neuroendo-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref35)
[crine tumors (NF-PanNETs). JAMA Surg. 2013;148:932e939.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref35)

[36. Chua TC, Yang TX, Gill AJ, Samra JS. Systematic review and meta-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref36)
[analysis of enucleation versus standardized resection for small](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref36)
[pancreatic lesions. Ann Surg Oncol. 2016;23:592e599.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref36)
[37. Yoshida T, Hijioka S, Hosoda W, et al. Surgery for pancreatic neuro-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref37)
[endocrine tumor G3 and carcinoma G3 should be considered sepa-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref37)
[rately. Ann Surg Oncol. 2019;26:1385e1393.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref37)
[38. Norlen O, Stalberg P, Oberg K, et al. Long-term results of surgery for](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref38)
[small intestinal neuroendocrine tumors at a tertiary referral center.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref38)
[World J Surg. 2012;36:1419e1431.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref38)
[39. Lardiere-Deguelte S, de Mestier L, Appere F, et al. Toward a preop-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref39)
[erative classification of lymph node metastases in patients with small](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref39)
[intestinal neuroendocrine tumors in the era of intestinal-sparing](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref39)
[surgery. Neuroendocrinology. 2016;103:552e559.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref39)
[40. Pasquer A, Walter T, Hervieu V, et al. Surgical management of small](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref40)
[bowel neuroendocrine tumors: specific requirements and their](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref40)
[impact on staging and prognosis. Ann Surg Oncol. 2015;22(Suppl 3):](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref40)

[S742eS749.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref40)

[41. Frilling A, Modlin IM, Kidd M, et al. Recommendations for manage-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref41)
[ment of patients with neuroendocrine liver metastases. Lancet Oncol.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref41)

[2014;15:e8ee21.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref41)

[42. Cho CS, Labow DM, Tang L, et al. Histologic grade is correlated with](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref42)

[outcome after resection of hepatic neuroendocrine neoplasms.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref42)

[Cancer. 2008;113:126e134.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref42)
[43. Frilling A, Li J, Malamutmann E, et al. Treatment of liver metastases](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref43)
[from neuroendocrine tumours in relation to the extent of hepatic](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref43)
[disease. Br J Surg. 2009;96:175e184.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref43)
[44. Daskalakis K, Karakatsanis A, Hessman O, et al. Association of a](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref44)

[prophylactic surgical approach to stage IV small intestinal neuroen-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref44)
[docrine tumors with survival. JAMA Oncol. 2018;4:183e189.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref44)

[45. Partelli S, Cirocchi R, Rancoita PMV, et al. A Systematic review and](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref45)
[meta-analysis on the role of palliative primary resection for pancre-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref45)
[atic neuroendocrine neoplasm with liver metastases. HPB (Oxford).](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref45)

[2018;20:197e203.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref45)
[46. Mazzaferro V, Sposito C, Coppa J, et al. The Long-term benefit of liver](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref46)
[transplantation for hepatic metastases from neuroendocrine tumors.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref46)
[Am J Transplant. 2016;16:2892e2902.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref46)
[47. Modlin IM, Pavel M, Kidd M, Gustafsson BI. Review article: somato-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref47)
[statin analogues in the treatment of gastroenteropancreatic neuro-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref47)
[endocrine (carcinoid) tumours. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2010;31:](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref47)

[169e188.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref47)

[48. Broder MS, Beenhouwer D, Strosberg JR, et al. Gastrointestinal](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref48)
[neuroendocrine tumors treated with high dose octreotide-LAR: a sys-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref48)
[tematic literature review. World J Gastroenterol. 2015;21:1945e1955.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref48)
[49. Wolin EM, Jarzab B, Eriksson B, et al. Phase III study of pasireotide](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref49)
[long-acting release in patients with metastatic neuroendocrine tu-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref49)
[mors and carcinoid symptoms refractory to available somatostatin](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref49)
[analogues. Drug Des Devel Ther. 2015;9:5075e5086.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref49)
[50. Oberg K. Interferon in the management of neuroendocrine GEP-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref50)
[tumors: a review. Digestion. 2000;62(Suppl 1):92e97.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref50)
[51. Kulke MH, Horsch D, Caplin ME, et al. Telotristat ethyl, a tryptophan](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref51)
[hydroxylase inhibitor for the treatment of carcinoid syndrome. J Clin](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref51)
[Oncol. 2017;35:14e23.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref51)
[52. Pavel M, Gross DJ, Benavent M, et al. Telotristat ethyl in carcinoid](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref52)
[syndrome: safety and efficacy in the TELECAST phase 3 trial. Endocr](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref52)
[Relat Cancer. 2018;25:309e322.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref52)

[53. Cella D, Beaumont JL, Hudgens S, et al. Relationship between](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref53)
[symptoms and health-related quality-of-life benefits in patients with](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref53)
[carcinoid syndrome: Post hoc analyses from TELESTAR. Clin Ther.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref53)

[2018;40:2006e2020.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref53)

[54. Bushnell Jr DL, O’Dorisio TM, O’Dorisio MS, et al. 90Y-edotreotide for](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref54)
[metastatic carcinoid refractory to octreotide. J Clin Oncol. 2010;28:](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref54)

[1652e1659.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref54)

[55. Strosberg J, Wolin E, Chasen B, et al. Health-related quality of life in](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref55)
[patients with progressive midgut neuroendocrine tumors treated](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref55)
[with (177)Lu-Dotatate in the phase III NETTER-1 trial. J Clin Oncol.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref55)

[2018;36:2578e2584.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref55)
[56. Ito T, Lee L, Jensen RT. Treatment of symptomatic neuroendocrine](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref56)
[tumor syndromes: recent advances and controversies. Expert Opin](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref56)
[Pharmacother. 2016;17:2191e2205.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref56)

858 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304) Volume 31 - Issue 7 - 2020

[57. Zandee WT, Brabander T, Blazevic A, et al. Symptomatic and radio-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref57)
[logical response to 177Lu-DOTATATE for the treatment of functioning](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref57)
pancreatic neuroendocrine [tumors.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref57) J Clin Endocrinol Metab.

[2019;104:1336e1344.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref57)
[58. Rinke A, Muller HH, Schade-Brittinger C, et al. Placebo-controlled,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref58)
[double-blind, prospective, randomized study on the effect of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref58)

[octreotide LAR in the control of tumor growth in patients with](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref58)
[metastatic neuroendocrine midgut tumors: a report from the](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref58)
[PROMID Study Group. J Clin Oncol. 2009;27:4656e4663.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref58)
[59. Caplin ME, Pavel M, Cwikla JB, et al. Lanreotide in metastatic enter-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref59)

[opancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. N Engl J Med. 2014;371:224e233.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref59)
[60. Caplin ME, Pavel M, Cwikla JB, et al. Anti-tumour effects of lanreotide](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref60)
[for pancreatic and intestinal neuroendocrine tumours: the CLARINET](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref60)

[open-label extension study. Endocr Relat Cancer. 2016;23:191e199.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref60)
[61. Rinke A, Wittenberg M, Schade-Brittinger C, et al. Placebo-controlled,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref61)
[double-blind, prospective, randomized study on the effect of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref61)

[octreotide LAR in the control of tumor growth in patients with](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref61)
[metastatic neuroendocrine midgut tumors (PROMID): Results of long-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref61)
[term survival. Neuroendocrinology. 2017;104:26e32.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref61)
[62. Yao JC, Guthrie KA, Moran C, et al. Phase III prospective randomized](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref62)
[comparison trial of depot octreotide plus interferon alfa-2b versus](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref62)
[depot octreotide plus bevacizumab in patients with advanced carci-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref62)
[noid tumors: SWOG S0518. J Clin Oncol. 2017;35:1695e1703.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref62)

[63. Yao JC, Lombard-Bohas C, Baudin E, et al. Daily oral everolimus ac-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref63)
[tivity in patients with metastatic pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref63)
[after failure of cytotoxic chemotherapy: a phase II trial. J Clin Oncol.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref63)

[2010;28:69e76.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref63)

[64. Kulke MH, Ruszniewski P, Van Cutsem E, et al. A randomized, open-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref64)
[label, phase 2 study of everolimus in combination with pasireotide](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref64)
[LAR or everolimus alone in advanced, well-differentiated, progressive](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref64)
[pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors: COOPERATE-2 trial. Ann Oncol.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref64)

[2017;28:1309e1315.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref64)
[65. Yao JC, Shah MH, Ito T, et al. Everolimus for advanced pancreatic](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref65)
[neuroendocrine tumors. N Engl J Med. 2011;364:514e523.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref65)
[66. Yao JC, Pavel M, Lombard-Bohas C, et al. Everolimus for the treatment](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref66)

[of advanced pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors: overall survival and](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref66)
[circulating biomarkers from the randomized, phase III RADIANT-3](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref66)
[study. J Clin Oncol. 2016;34:3906e3913.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref66)
[67. Yao JC, Fazio N, Singh S, et al. Everolimus for the treatment of](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref67)
[advanced, non-functional neuroendocrine tumours of the lung or](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref67)
[gastrointestinal tract (RADIANT-4): a randomised, placebo-controlled,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref67)
[phase 3 study. Lancet. 2016;387:968e977.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref67)
[68. Singh S, Carnaghi C, Buzzoni R, et al. Everolimus in neuroendocrine](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref68)
[tumors of the gastrointestinal tract and unknown primary. Neuro-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref68)
[endocrinology. 2018;106:211e220.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref68)
[69. Pavel ME, Singh S, Strosberg JR, et al. Health-related quality of life for](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref69)
[everolimus versus placebo in patients with advanced, non-functional,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref69)
[well-differentiated gastrointestinal or lung neuroendocrine tumours](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref69)
[(RADIANT-4): a multicentre, randomised, double-blind, placebo-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref69)
[controlled, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol. 2017;18:1411e1422.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref69)
[70. Meric-Bernstam F, Akcakanat A, Chen H, et al. PIK3CA/PTEN muta-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref70)
[tions and Akt activation as markers of sensitivity to allosteric mTOR](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref70)
[inhibitors. Clin Cancer Res. 2012;18:1777e1789.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref70)

[71. Pavel ME, Hainsworth JD, Baudin E, et al. Everolimus plus octreotide](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref71)
[long-acting repeatable for the treatment of advanced neuroendocrine](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref71)
[tumours associated with carcinoid syndrome (RADIANT-2): a rando-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref71)
[mised, placebo-controlled, phase3 study. Lancet. 2011;378:2005e2012.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref71)
[72. Pavel ME, Baudin E, Oberg KE, et al. Efficacy of everolimus plus octreotide](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref72)
[LAR in patients with advanced neuroendocrine tumor and carcinoid](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref72)
[syndrome: final overall survival from the randomized, placebo-controlled](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref72)
[phase 3 RADIANT-2 study. Ann Oncol. 2017;28:1569e1575.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref72)
[73. EMA. Available at https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-](https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/afinitor-epar-product-information_en.pdf)
[information/afinitor-epar-product-information_en.pdf.](https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/product-information/afinitor-epar-product-information_en.pdf) Accessed
November 29, 2019.

[74. Panzuto F, Rinzivillo M, Spada F, et al. Everolimus in pancreatic](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref74)
[neuroendocrine carcinomas G3. Pancreas. 2017;46:302e305.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref74)
[75. Raymond E, Dahan L, Raoul JL, et al. Sunitinib malate for the treat-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref75)
[ment of pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors. N Engl J Med. 2011;364:](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref75)

[501e513.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref75)

[76. Faivre S, Niccoli P, Castellano D, et al. Sunitinib in pancreatic neuro-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref76)
[endocrine tumors: updated progression-free survival and final overall](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref76)
[survival from a phase III randomized study. Ann Oncol. 2017;28:339e](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref76)

[343.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref76)

[77. Vinik A, Bottomley A, Korytowsky B, et al. Patient-reported outcomes](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref77)
[and quality of life with sunitinib versus placebo for pancreatic](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref77)
[neuroendocrine tumors: results from an international phase III trial.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref77)
[Target Oncol. 2016;11:815e824.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref77)
[78. EMA. Available at https://ec.europa.eu/health/documents/community-](https://ec.europa.eu/health/documents/community-register/2016/20161109136193/anx_136193_en.pdf)
[register/2016/20161109136193/anx_136193_en.pdf.](https://ec.europa.eu/health/documents/community-register/2016/20161109136193/anx_136193_en.pdf) Accessed
November 29, 2019.
[79. Raymond E, Kulke MH, Qin S, et al. Efficacy and safety of sunitinib in](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref79)
[patients with well-differentiated pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref79)
[Neuroendocrinology. 2018;107:237e245.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref79)
[80. Pellat A, Dreyer C, Couffignal C, et al. Clinical and biomarker evalu-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref80)
[ations of sunitinib in patients with Grade 3 digestive neuroendocrine](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref80)
[neoplasms. Neuroendocrinology. 2018;107:24e31.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref80)
[81. Xu J, Shen L, Zhou Z, et al. Efficacy and safety of surufatinib in](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref81)
[patients with well-differentiated advanced extrapancreatic neuroen-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref81)
[docrine tumors (NETs): Results from the randomized phase III study](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref81)
[(SANET-ep). Ann Oncol. 2019;30:v851ev934.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref81)
[82. Lamarca A, Elliott E, Barriuso J, et al. Chemotherapy for advanced](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref82)
[non-pancreatic well-differentiated neuroendocrine tumours of the](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref82)
[gastrointestinal tract, a systematic review and meta-analysis: A lost](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref82)
[cause? Cancer Treat Rev. 2016;44:26e41.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref82)
[83. Moertel CG, Lefkopoulo M, Lipsitz S, et al. Streptozocin-doxorubicin,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref83)
streptozocin-fluorouracil   - r [chlorozotocin](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref83) in the treatment   - f
[advanced islet-cell carcinoma. N Engl J Med. 1992;326:519e523.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref83)
[84. Clewemar Antonodimitrakis P, Sundin A, Wassberg C, et al. Strepto-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref84)
zocin and 5-fluorouracil for the treatment   - f pancreatic
[neuroendocrine tumors: efficacy, prognostic factors and toxicity.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref84)
[Neuroendocrinology. 2016;103:345e353.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref84)
[85. Dilz LM, Denecke T, Steffen IG, et al. Streptozocin/5-fluorouracil chemo-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref85)
[therapy is associated with durable response in patients with advanced](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref85)
[pancreatic neuroendocrine tumours. Eur J Cancer. 2015;51:1253e1262.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref85)
[86. Cives M, Ghayouri M, Morse B, et al. Analysis of potential response](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref86)
[predictors to capecitabine/temozolomide in metastatic pancreatic](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref86)
[neuroendocrine tumors. Endocr Relat Cancer. 2016;23:759e767.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref86)
[87. Kunz PL, Catalano PJ, Nimeiri HS, et al. A randomized study of temo-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref87)
[zolomide or temozolomide and capecitabine in patients with advanced](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref87)
[pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors: a trial of the ECOG-ACRIN Cancer](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref87)
[Research Group (E2211). J Clin Oncol. 2015;33:TPS4145.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref87)
[88. Walter T, van Brakel B, Vercherat C, et al. O6-Methylguanine-DNA](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref88)
[methyltransferase status in neuroendocrine tumours: prognostic](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref88)
[relevance and association with response to alkylating agents. Br J](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref88)

[Cancer. 2015;112:523e531.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref88)

[89. Sorbye H, Strosberg J, Baudin E, et al. Gastroenteropancreatic high-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref89)
[grade neuroendocrine carcinoma. Cancer. 2014;120:2814e2823.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref89)
[90. Garcia-Carbonero R, Sorbye H, Baudin E, et al. ENETS consensus](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref90)
[guidelines for high-grade gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref90)
tumors and neuroendocrine [carcinomas.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref90) Neuroendocrinology.

[2016;103:186e194.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref90)
[91. Knigge U, Capdevila J, Bartsch DK, et al. ENETS Consensus recom-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref91)
[mendations for the standards of care in neuroendocrine neoplasms:](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref91)
[follow-up and documentation. Neuroendocrinology. 2017;105:310e](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref91)

[319.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref91)

[92. van Adrichem RC, Kamp K, van Deurzen CH, et al. Is there an addi-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref92)
[tional value of using somatostatin receptor subtype 2a immunohis-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref92)
[tochemistry compared to somatostatin receptor scintigraphy uptake](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref92)
in predicting [gastroenteropancreatic](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref92) neuroendocrine tumor
[response? Neuroendocrinology. 2016;103:560e566.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref92)
[93. Strosberg J, El-Haddad G, Wolin E, et al. Phase 3 trial of (177)Lu-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref93)
[Dotatate for midgut neuroendocrine tumors. N Engl J Med. 2017;376:](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref93)

[125e135.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref93)

[94. EMA. Available at https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/overvi](https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/overview/lutathera-epar-summary-public_en.pdf)
[ew/lutathera-epar-summary-public_en.pdf. Accessed November 29,](https://www.ema.europa.eu/en/documents/overview/lutathera-epar-summary-public_en.pdf)

2019.

[95. Hicks RJ, Kwekkeboom DJ, Krenning E, et al. ENETS Consensus](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref95)
[guidelines for the standards of care in neuroendocrine neoplasia:](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref95)

Volume 31 - Issue 7 - 2020 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304) 859



[peptide receptor radionuclide therapy with radiolabeled somato-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref95)
[statin analogues. Neuroendocrinology. 2017;105:295e309.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref95)
[96. Kwekkeboom DJ, de Herder WW, Kam BL, et al. Treatment with](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref96)
[the radiolabeled somatostatin analog [177 Lu-DOTA 0,Tyr3]octreo-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref96)
[tate: toxicity, efficacy, and survival. J Clin Oncol. 2008;26:2124e](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref96)

[2130.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref96)

[97. Brabander T, van der Zwan WA, Teunissen JJM, et al. Long-term ef-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref97)
[ficacy, survival, and safety of [(177)Lu-DOTA(0),Tyr(3)]octreotate in](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref97)
[patients with gastroenteropancreatic and bronchial neuroendocrine](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref97)
[tumors. Clin Cancer Res. 2017;23:4617e4624.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref97)

[98. Severi S, Grassi I, Nicolini S, et al. Peptide receptor radionuclide](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref98)
[therapy in the management of gastrointestinal neuroendocrine tu-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref98)
[mors: efficacy profile, safety, and quality of life. Onco Targets Ther.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref98)

[2017;10:551e557.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref98)

[99. Thang SP, Lung MS, Kong G, et al. Peptide receptor radionuclide](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref99)
[therapy (PRRT) in European Neuroendocrine Tumour Society (ENETS)](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref99)
[grade 3 (G3) neuroendocrine neoplasia (NEN) - a single-institution](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref99)
[retrospective analysis. Eur J Nucl Med Mol Imaging. 2018;45:262e](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref99)

[277.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref99)

[100. Carlsen EA, Fazio N, Granberg D, et al. Peptide receptor radionuclide](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref100)
[therapy in gastroenteropancreatic NEN G3: a multicenter cohort](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref100)
[study. Endocr Relat Cancer. 2019;26:227e239.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref100)
[101. Nicolini S, Severi S, Ianniello A, et al. Investigation of receptor](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref101)
[radionuclide therapy with (177)Lu-DOTATATE in patients with GEP-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref101)

[NEN and a high Ki-67 proliferation index. Eur J Nucl Med Mol Imag-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref101)

[ing. 2018;45:923e930.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref101)
[102. Zhang J, Kulkarni HR, Singh A, et al. Peptide receptor radionuclide](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref102)
[therapy in grade 3 neuroendocrine neoplasms: safety and survival](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref102)
[analysis in 69 patients. J Nucl Med. 2019;60:377e385.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref102)
[103. Öberg K, Califano A, Strosberg JR, et al. A meta-analysis of the ac-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref103)
[curacy of a neuroendocrine tumor mRNA genomic biomarker (NET-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref103)
[est) in blood. Ann Oncol. 2020;31:202e212.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref103)
[104. Bodei L, Kidd MS, Singh A, et al. PRRT genomic signature in blood for](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref104)
[prediction of (177)Lu-octreotate efficacy. Eur J Nucl Med Mol Imag-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref104)
[ing. 2018;45:1155e1169.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref104)
[105. Bodei L, Kidd MS, Singh A, et al. PRRT neuroendocrine tumor](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref105)
[response monitored using circulating transcript analysis: the NETest.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref105)
[Eur J Nucl Med Mol Imaging. 2020;47:895e906.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref105)
[106. van Treijen MJC, Korse CM, van Leeuwaarde RS, et al. Blood transcript](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref106)
[profiling for the detection of neuroendocrine tumors: results of a large](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref106)
[independent validation study. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2018;9:740.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref106)
[107. Cherny NI, Dafni U, Bogaerts J, et al. ESMO-Magnitude of Clinical](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref107)
[Benefit Scale Version 1.1. Ann Oncol. 2017;28:2340e2366.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref107)
[108. Dykewicz CA. Summary of the Guidelines for Preventing Opportunistic](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref108)
[Infections among Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplant Recipients. Clin](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref108)
[Infect Dis. 2001;33(2):139e144 (Adapted from: Gross PA, Barrett TL,](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref108)
[Dellinger EP, et al. Purpose of quality standards for infectious dis-](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref108)
[eases. Clin Infect Dis. 1994;18:421).](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0923-7534(20)36394-8/sref108)

860 [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.annonc.2020.03.304) Volume 31 - Issue 7 - 2020



--- END FULL CONTENT ---
